♪ >> IT'S A WEAKER REPORT BUT
IT IS A WEAKER REPORT THAT
SOLIDIFIES 25. SOLIDIFIES 25.
>> THE MARKETS ARE QUICKLY
MOVING FROM PRICING IN TWO CUTS
TO POSSIBLY A CUT AT ALL THREE
MEETINGS. MEETINGS.
>> WE CAN ALL AGREE THAT THE
TONE FROM THE FED HAS TILTED
MORE DOVISH. MORE DOVISH.
IT SHOULD BE A DOVISH SEPTEMBER
FOMC. FOMC. ANNOUNCER:
ANNOUNCER:
THIS IS "BLOOMBERG
THIS IS "BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE"
SURVEILLANCE"
WITH JONATHAN FERRO, LISA
ABRAMOWICZ AND ANNMARIE
ABRAMOWICZ AND ANNMARIE HORDERN.
HORDERN. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
GOOD MORNING, FOR OUR AUDIENCE
WORLDWIDE, "BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE" SURVEILLANCE"
STARTS RIGHT NOW.
COMING INTO MONDAY RATE CUTS
SIGNED AND SEALED.
INVESTORS LOOKING FOR ONE MORE
READ ON INFLATION BEFORE CHAIR
POWELL DELIVERS.
AS POLITICAL INSTABILITY
OVERSEAS SENDS JAPANESE BOND
YIELDS BACK TO RECORD HIGHS,
EUROPE IS PREPARING FOR ANOTHER
FRENCH GOVERNMENT TO FALL OVER
FAILED BUDGET EFFORTS.
THE STRUGGLE CONTINUES.
THE STRUGGLE CONTINUES. LISA:
LISA: AND THE STRUGGLE ON AN
AND THE STRUGGLE ON AN
INTERNATIONAL LEVEL.
THIS IS SOMETHING SCOTT BESSENT
HAS BEEN VERY CLEAR ON, IT IS
NOT A U.S. NOT A U.S.
ISSUE, IT IS A GLOBAL ISSUE OF
POLITICAL INSTABILITY CAUSING
QUESTIONS BY BOND INVESTORS
ABOUT WHETHER SOME OF THESE
NATIONS WILL BE ABLE TO PAY
THEIR DEBTS BACK.
IF THE FED CUTS NOW, DOES THAT
ENCOURAGE A HIGHER INFLATION,
HIGHER INSTABILITY TYPE OF
REGIME IN THE FUTURE, OR IS IT
ISOLATED FROM SOME OF THE NOISE
OVERSEAS? OVERSEAS? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: THE BAD NEWS IS WHY.
THE BAD NEWS IS WHY.
WAGE GROWTH HAS SLOWED, HOURS
WORKED HASN'T PICKED UP, THE
DOVES HAVE GOT A REALLY STRONG
ARGUMENT GOING INTO THE MEETING
NEXT WEEK BECAUSE THE PAYROLLS
GROWTH WE'VE SEEN HAS SEEN A
SERIOUS STEP DOWN.
SERIOUS STEP DOWN. LISA: LISA:
AND YOU SAW JUNE BECOME THE
FIRST MONTH WITH A NEGATIVE
HEADLINE JOB SPRINT GOING BACK
TO DECEMBER 2020, LEADING SOME
TO THINK THERE'S A LOT MORE
WEAKNESS IN THE PIPELINE.
I WOULD BUILD ON THAT AND SAY
ON THURSDAY WE GET CPI.
HOW WEAK DOES THAT HAVE TO BE
FOR THEM TO CONSIDER GOING 50
BASIS NEXT WEEK?
BASIS NEXT WEEK? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
LOOKING FOR EXACTLY THAT, WE
NOW EXPECT A 50 BASIS POINT FED
CUT IN SEPTEMBER.
CUT IN SEPTEMBER. LISA: LISA:
SO HE'S BEEN ARGUING THEY
SHOULD HAVE BEEN CONSIDERING
THAT ANYWAY. THAT ANYWAY.
HE SAID PRETTY MUCH ANY
HEADLINE NUMBER YOU'RE GOING TO
GET 70,000 FEWER JOBS WHEN IT
IS REVISED AND IT GOES DOWN TO
WHERE IS THE CREDIBILITY AND
SOME OF THIS DATA.
THE ANECDOTES ARE CONFUSING.
CAN YOU HAVE A LABOR MARKET
THAT IS SLOW WHILE STILL HAVING
PROFITABILITY AT A PACE THAT
HAS BEEN WHAT IT HAS BEEN.
MAYBE THE ANSWER IS YES BECAUSE
YOU LOOK AT TECH COMPANIES
DELIVERING PRETTY BIG PROFIT
WHILE STILL LAYING PEOPLE OFF.
IT'S A VERY STRANGE MARKET AND
GOES BACK TO WHAT YOU CAN
SAYING, IS IT CYCLICAL OR
STRUCTURAL? STRUCTURAL?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
YOU'VE GOT A MARKET VERY CLOSE
TO ALL-TIME HIGHS.
SMALL CAPS UP FOR FIVE STRAIGHT
WEEKS. WEEKS.
HOMEBUILDERS LAST WEEK OF 6.5%.
THIS MARKET AND INVESTORS ARE
LOOKING FOR CYCLICAL REBOUND.
LISA: LISA:
GOLDMAN SACHS LEAN INTO THIS
AND SAY SMALL CAPS WILL
OUTPERFORM, SO LEADING INTO THE
RALLY THAT WE'VE SEEN.
STUART KAISER REALLY DOUBLED
DOWN ON BAD NEWS IS BAD NEWS,
THAT ESSENTIALLY THIS IS WHAT
YOU'RE GOING TO GET IN A
POTENTIAL LEAD TO WEAKNESS IN
RISK ASSETS. RISK ASSETS.
IT'S BEEN A FRUSTRATING MARKET
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE YOU CAN'T
REALLY MAKE A DEFINITIVE
ARGUMENT ONE WAY OR ANOTHER
ABOUT WHICH WAY THINGS ARE
GOING TO BREAK SO IT WILL
LIKELY BEEN IN LIMBO FOR QUITE
A WHILE AND IT JUST SEEMS
UNCLEAR. UNCLEAR.
BOTH ARGUMENTS HAVE LEGITIMACY
WHETHER YOU GET A DOWNTURN ON
ONE HAND FOR A RE-ACCELERATION
ON THE HEELS OF ONE BIG
BEAUTIFUL BILL AND ALL SORTS OF
OTHER THINGS THAT WOULD LEAD TO
THIS CYCLICAL RALLY.
THIS CYCLICAL RALLY. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I HOPE WE GET A REACCELERATION
FOR THE GOOD OF THE U.S.
ECONOMY. ECONOMY.
JUST DON'T SEE MANY SIDES OF
THE RIGHT NOW, THAT'S FOR SURE.
A LIFT TO THE NASDAQ ON THIS
EQUITY MARKET AND THE RALLY
CONTINUES ON SMALLS.
SMALL CAPS HIGHER BY 0.1%.
WE CATCH UP WITH CAMERON DAWSON
ANTICIPATING A STAGFLATION-LIKE
SCENARIO. SCENARIO.
KELLY AND SHAW JOINS US ON THE
RISK OF A MASSIVE TARIFF REFUND
AND ELLEN ZENTNER ON GROWING
CONCERNS OF MISSION CREEK AT
THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
STOCKS HIGHER AS INVESTORS
AWAIT KEY INFLATION DATA.
WE CONTINUE TO SEE THIS AS
STAGFLATION LIKE, WHERE GROWTH
IS SLOW AND MUDDLED, INFLATION
IS STICKY AND WE COULD THE
DOUBTS OF UPWARD PRESSURE ON
YIELDS. YIELDS.
CAMERON, GOOD MORNING.
HIS STAGFLATION GOOD FOR EQUITY
MARKETS? MARKETS?
>> STAGFLATION IS ONLY GOOD FOR
EQUITY MARKETS OF COMPANIES
HAVE PRICING POWER.
IN A 2022 WE WERE IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE GROWTH WAS
SLOWING BUT THE BECAUSE COME --
BECAUSE COMPANY SAID PRICING
POWER WE WERE ABLE TO SEE
MARGIN EXPANSION.
COMPANIES ARE TALKING ABOUT
LESS ABILITY TO PASS ON PRICE
INCREASES TO CONSUMERS WHICH
IMPLIES LEFT TOPLINE GROWTH
WHICH IMPLIES LESS MARGIN
EXPANSION, WHICH COMES INTO THE
FACE OF THE FACT THAT CONSENSUS
HAS ABOUT 100 BASIS POINT OF
MARGIN EXPANSION PRICED IN FOR
2026. 2026.
SO THAT IS THE KEY QUESTION AND
THEN IF MARGINS DO COMPRESS,
DOES THAT MEAN THAT COMPANIES
TURN TO LAYOFFS IN ORDER TO
DEFEND THOSE MARGINS?
DEFEND THOSE MARGINS? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
DO YOU HAVE PRICING POWER WHEN
YOU HAVE A LABOR MARKET THAT IS
WEAKENING? WEAKENING?
WHEN YOU PUSH BACK AGAINST THE
MARKET PRICED ALL-TIME HIGHS ON
THE S&P 500? THE S&P 500?
>> WE THINK THE MARKET PRICED
AT ALL-TIME HIGHS AS A FUNCTION
OF THE FACT THAT 12 MONTH OVER
EARNING ESTIMATES ARE ALSO AT
ALL-TIME HIGHS. ALL-TIME HIGHS.
AS LONG AS FORWARD EARNINGS
ESTIMATES CONTINUE TO CLIMB WE
THINK THE MARKET IS WELL
SUPPORTED. SUPPORTED.
IF THEY START TO FLATLINE OR TO
MOVE LOWER BECAUSE OF SOME OF
THESE POTENTIAL CHALLENGES TO
MARGINS, THAT IS HIM WE WOULD
EXPECT MARKETS TO TAKE MORE OF
A BREATHER. A BREATHER.
BUT AS LONG AS YOU CONTINUE TO
SEE THAT UPWARD PRESSURE IN
EARNINGS ESTIMATES, ARC IT'S
LIKELY RISE. LIKELY RISE. LISA:
LISA:
DON'T WE BASICALLY HAVE A FED
UNDERWRITING RISK ASSETS AT
THIS POINT? THIS POINT?
>> WHEN HAVE THEY NOT?
>> WHEN HAVE THEY NOT? LISA:
LISA:
THEY DIDN'T WEN YU THEY HAD
THIS IDEA OF RUNAWAY INFLATION.
WHAT POINT DOES IT REALLY HINGE
ON CPI WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE
GOING TO RADICALLY UNDERWRITE
RISK ASSETS? RISK ASSETS?
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS SO
INTERESTING IS THAT EVEN AS WE
SEE THE FED TALKED ABOUT RATE
CUTS WITH INFLATION REMAINING
STICKY AND HIGHER, WE'VE NOT
SEEN THE BOND MARKET PRICE IN
THE POTENTIAL THAT THE FED WILL
MOVE AWAY FROM THAT 2% TARGET.
IF YOU LOOK AT INFLATION
BREAKEVENS OR INFLATION SWAPS,
WHAT YOU CAN SEE IS THAT THEY
ARE STILL FAIRLY WELL
CONTAINED, MEANING THE BOND
MARKET HAS THIS CONFIDENCE THAT
THE FED IS GOING TO STICK TO
THE 2% INFLATION TARGET.
THE QUESTION IS, IS THAT
CONFIDENCE WELL-SUPPORTED GIVEN
THE FACT THAT THE FED IS
LOOKING THAT IT IS GOING TO
PRIORITIZE THE MANDATE ABOUT
JOBS VS. JOBS VS. INFLATION.
INFLATION. LISA: LISA:
WE KEEP TALKING ABOUT THIS
K-SHAPED ECONOMY AND REGARDLESS
OF WHETHER WE ARE ENTERING A
SLOWDOWN OR NOT, THE CONSUMER
KEEPS SPENDING AND WE SEE THAT
WITH COMPANIES CONTINUING TO DO
OK AND HAVING PRETTY STRONG
PROFITABILITY EVEN WITH THIS
WEAKENING LABOR MARKET.
CAN'T THAT CONTINUE?
CAN'T YOU GET A SITUATION WHERE
THE S&P 500 WHICH ARE LESS AND
LESS REPRESENTATIVE OF THE REST
OF THE ECONOMY DO WELL WITH
PROFITABILITY? PROFITABILITY?
WE GET ASSERTIVE SLOW GROWTH,
LOW HIGHER, LOW FIRE.
>> THEY DO MAKE UP THE MAJORITY
OF THE CONSUMPTION.
THEY ARE THE TOP 20% INCOME
QUINTILE. QUINTILE.
BUT HERE'S THE KICKER.
YOU'RE SEEING INTEREST INCOME
TO THAT CONSUMER WHERE THEY
HAVE ALL OF THE SAVINGS, THE
MAJORITY OF THE SAVINGS START
TO FALL AS THE FED IS CUTTING
INTEREST RATE. INTEREST RATE.
SO WHAT IS FASCINATING ABOUT
THE PAST YEAR IS THAT AS THE
FED HAS CUT RATES THEIR
INTEREST INCOME HAS BEEN HURT
MORE THAN THEY'VE BEEN HELPED
BY LOWER INTEREST RATES, WHICH
SUGGESTS THAT AT THE FED CUT
INTEREST RATES, COULD THIS FOR
THE INTEREST INCOME OF THAT
HIGH INCOME CONSUMER AND CAUSE
AN UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCE OF A
SLOWDOWN IN SOME OF THAT
CONSUMPTION GROWTH WHICH GOES
WITH THE IDEA THAT YOU ARE
ACTUALLY STARTING TO SEE
DELINQUENCY RATES FOR THAT HIGH
INCOME CONSUMER START TO PICK
UP MORE THAN THE PAST FEW
UP MORE THAN THE PAST FEW YEARS.
YEARS. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
DO YOU THINK THAT FORESHADOWS
ECONOMIC DOWNTURN?
>> WE THINK THE U.S.
ECONOMY REMAINS VERY MUCH
RESILIENT. RESILIENT.
WE THINK THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN
REALLY DEPENDS ON WHETHER THIS
LITTLE FIRE, LITTLE HIGHER
LABOR MARKET TURNS INTO A
HIGHER FIRING LABOR MARKET
WHICH BRINGS US BACK TO THE
NOTION OF MARGINS.
SECRETARY BESSENT SAT IN THIS
CHAIR AND SAID THAT MARGINS GOT
VERY FAT DURING COVID AND IT IS
OK IF THEY START TO MODERATE.
HOW DO COMPANIES DEFEND THEM?
IF THEY DEFEND THEM BY CUTTING
HEADCOUNT THAT IS WHAT WE SEE A
MUCH WEAKER ECONOMIC GROWTH
ENVIRONMENT. ENVIRONMENT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
MAYBE THAT CHANGES IN THE
FUTURE, I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE
FUTURE HOLDS, BUT FOR THE
MOMENT, THE STEP DOWN IN
PAYROLLS GROWTH JANUARY THROUGH
APRIL, WE REACH 123,000 A
APRIL, WE REACH 123,000 A MONTH.
MONTH.
WE'VE STEPPED DOWN TO 27 K.
WE'VE DONE THAT IN JUST A FEW
MONTHS. MONTHS.
LISA: LISA:
THE FACT THAT YOU HAD A
NEGATIVE NUMBER FOR THE MONTH
OF JUNE WITH THOSE DOWNWARD
REVISIONS CAUSED A LOT OF
PEOPLE TO SAY WAIT A SECOND,
THIS LOOKS PRETTY NEGATIVE.
THE HAWKS, IF THERE ARE ANY, I
DON'T THINK THERE ARE ANY,
SOMEBODY COULD ARGUE THAT WHAT
YOU ARE SEEING IS A MARKET WITH
JUST A FEW ARE POPULATION
GROWTH TYPE OF DYNAMIC.
THAT'S PART OF WHAT IS GOING ON
HERE. HERE.
EITHER WAY IT'S CLEAR IF YOU
ARE OUT OF A JOB, IT IS TOUGH
FOR YOU. FOR YOU. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
THE BUZZ, A PRIVATE DINNER
ATTENDED BY DOZENS OF
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS AND
CLOSE ADVISERS TO THE PRESIDENT
WAS TEMPORALLY MARRED BY
DRAMATIC CLASH BETWEEN TWO TOP
ECONOMIC OFFICIALS, SCOTT
BESSENT AT ONE POINT
THREATENING TO PUNCH THE TOP
FINANCE OFFICIAL IN THE FACE.
PRETTY BRUTAL DOWN IN
WASHINGTON, APPARENTLY.
WASHINGTON, APPARENTLY. LISA:
LISA: WE FOR IT ABOUT OTHER
WE FOR IT ABOUT OTHER
ALTERCATIONS BETWEEN SOME OF
THE MEMBERS. THE MEMBERS.
I BELIEVE SCOTT BESSENT AND
ELON MUSK AT ONE POINT WERE
REPORTEDLY IN A TIT-FOR-TAT AND
FRIENDLY CONVERSATION.
THIS ISN'T THE FIRST TIME WE'VE
SEEN OR HEARD ABOUT SOME TRUMP
ADVISORS GETTING INTO AN ISSUE
WITH THIS. WITH THIS.
THEY SHOW SOME OF THE TENSIONER
AND HAVE THE FED IS TREATED AND
WHETHER NECESSARILY GOING AFTER
FED OFFICIALS IS BENEFICIAL TO
GET 10 YEAR TREASURY YIELDS
DOWN TO 3% THE WAY SCOTT
BESSENT WENT. BESSENT WENT.
SO I WONDER HOW MUCH THAT WAS
-- TOTALLY SPECULATING SO I
SHOULD TAKE A STEP BACK.
I CAN PICTURE HIM AT THE BOXING
RING. RING. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WE WILL LET YOU GO, DON'T
WE WILL LET YOU GO, DON'T WORRY.
WORRY.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME AS ALWAYS.
WHAT A STORY. WHAT A STORY.
EQUITIES POSITED BY A QUARTER
OF 1%. OF 1%.
AN UPDATE ON STORIES ELSEWHERE
WITH YOUR BLUEBIRD BRIEF,
HERE'S YAHAIRA. HERE'S YAHAIRA.
YAHAIRA: YAHAIRA:
WE START OVER IN JAPAN WHERE
THE PRIME MINISTER HAS
ANNOUNCED HE WILL STEP DOWN.
THE MOVE FOLLOWS CALLS FOR HIS
RESIGNATION AFTER BACK-TO-BACK
ELECTION LOSSES THAT COST HIS
PARTY ITS PARLIAMENTARY
MAJORITY. MAJORITY.
WITH NO CLEAR SUCCESSOR HIS
DEPARTURE IS LIKELY TO FUEL
UNCERTAINTY AMONG INVESTORS.
MEANWHILE DONALD TRUMP HAS A
SHORTLIST OF CANDIDATES TO
REPLACE FED CHAIR JAY POWELL
WHEN HIS TERM EXPIRES IN THE
SPRING. SPRING.
KEVIN HASSETT, CHRIS WALLER AND
KEVIN WARSH ARE THE FINALISTS.
OVER THE WEEKEND, HASSETT SAID
THE U.S. THE U.S.
CENTRAL BANK PUT ITS U.S.
INDEPENDENCE AND CREDIBILITY IN
JEOPARDY BY EXPANDING BEYOND
ITS MANDATE. ITS MANDATE.
AND SUB LIKE IT HAS
SUCCESSFULLY DEFENDED HER CROWN
IN STRAIGHT SETS TO CLAIM HER
FOURTH GRAND SLAM TITLE.
SHE'S THE FIRST PLAYER TO WIN
BACK-TO-BACK U.S.
OPEN WOMEN'S SINGLES TITLES
SINCE SERENA WILLIAMS DID IT
OVER A DECADE AGO.
AND ON THE MEN'S SIDE, CARLOS
ALCARAZ BEAT YANNIKS SINNER.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THE PRESIDENT IN ATTENDANCE,
HAVE WE GOT PICTURES THE BACK?
I HOPE WE DO. I HOPE WE DO.
IN THE ROLEX SUITE.
THEY'VE JUST SLAPPED TARIFFS OF
CLOSE TO 40% OF LUXURY WATCHES
COMING OUT OF SWITZERLAND.
THERE IS THE PRESIDENT SITTING
IN THE ROLEX SUITE AT ARTHUR
AND AND I WAS WONDERING IF WE
WOKE UP THIS MONDAY MORNING TO
SOME EXEMPTIONS ON SOME SWISS
TARIFFS. TARIFFS. LISA: LISA:
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WE COULD
BE WATCHING FOR.
I ALSO WAS GOING TO SAY I WOULD
HAVE ATTENDED BUT I GOT STUCK
IN THE SECURITY LINE.
IN THE SECURITY LINE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
CAN YOU IMAGINE DROPPING 10K
FOR COURTSIDE SEATS AND THEN
HAVING TO WAIT OUTSIDE FOR
HOURS TO GET IN?
HOURS TO GET IN? LISA: LISA:
AND HAVING THE MATCHED LAID 45
MINUTES AND STILL STARTING
BEFORE MOST PEOPLE HAVE GOTTEN
INTO THE STADIUM.
DEFINITELY AN INTERESTING
DEFINITELY AN INTERESTING NIGHT.
NIGHT. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THE ORGANIZATION OF THAT, I'VE
GOT SOME THINGS TO SAY.
THE PRESENTATION OF ALL OF
THAT, THE WHOLE THING.
THE WHOLE THING.
THE WHOLE THING. LISA: LISA:
THERE WERE SOME BUGS.
THERE WERE SOME BUGS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: UP NEXT, REFUND RISK.
UP NEXT, REFUND RISK.
>> I'M CONFIDENT THAT WE WILL
WIN AT THE SUPREME COURT, BUT
THERE ARE NUMEROUS OTHER
AVENUES THAT WE CAN TAKE.
WE WOULD HAVE TO GIVE A REFUND
OF ABOUT HALF THE TARIFFS,
WHICH WOULD BE TERRIBLE FOR THE
TREASURY IF THE COURT SAYS THAT
WE HAVE TO DO IT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
♪ ♪
♪ JONATHAN: THE MAIN EVENT THIS
WEEK, HE READ ON U.S.
INFLATION STARTS WITH PPI
WEDNESDAY AND THEN WE GET CPI
ON THURSDAY. ON THURSDAY.
A READ ON THE CONSUMER AGAIN
GOING INTO THE WEEKEND,
CONSUMER CONFIDENCE AND
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS AND
FOCUS AHEAD OF NEXT WEEK'S BIG
FED DECISION. FED DECISION.
HERE'S THE PRICE ACTION
SNAPPING TWO DAYS OF GAINS ON
THE S&P 500 INTO SATURDAY.
THIS MONDAY MORNING WE ADD SOME
WEIGHT TO THE RALLY AGAIN.
THE NASDAQ UP BY 0.4.
DOWN IN WASHINGTON, D.C.,
CONFRONTING REFUND RISK.
>> I AM CONFIDENT THAT WE WILL
WIN AT THE SUPREME COURT THERE
ARE NUMEROUS CLEAR AVENUES THAT
WE CAN TAKE. WE CAN TAKE.
THEY DIMINISH PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
NEGOTIATING POSITION.
WE WOULD HAVE TO GIVE A REFUND
ON ABOUT HALF THE TARIFFS, IT
WOULD BE TERRIBLE FOR THE
TREASURY. TREASURY.
BUT IF THE COURT SAYS IT, WE
WOULD HAVE TO DO IT.
WOULD HAVE TO DO IT. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
DONALD TRUMP'S ADMINISTRATION
LOOKING FOR OTHER AVENUES TO
IMPLEMENT TARIFFS IF THE
SUPREME COURT RULED AGAINST THE
PRESIDENT'S AGENDA.
SCOTT BESSENT WARNING THE U.S.
WOULD HAVE TO REFUND NEARLY
HALF THE COUNTRY'S TARIFF
INCOME IF THE CASE IS LOST.
TYLER KENDALL JOINS US FOR
TYLER KENDALL JOINS US FOR MORE.
MORE.
>> GOOD MORNING.
YOU SAID IT, THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT COULD BE ON THE HOOK
FOR TENS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN REFUNDS IF THE SUPREME COURT
DOESN'T SIDE WITH THE
ADMINISTRATION'S CASE FOR
IMPOSING TARIFFS UNDER THE
INTERNATIONAL EMERGENCY
ECONOMIC POWERS ACT BECAUSE AS
YOU WELL KNOW LAST MONTH,
FEDERAL APPEALS COURT RULED
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP
OVERSTEPPED HIS AUTHORITY BUT
IMPORTANTLY THAT COURT PUT THAT
DECISION ON HOLD GIVING THE
WHITE HOUSE THIS CHANCE TO ASK
THE SUPREME COURT TO INTERVENE.
THE LATEST DATA FROM THE U.S.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT SHOWS US
THE U.S. THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT HAS SO FAR RECORDED
MORE THAN 180 $4 BILLION IN
TARIFF REVENUES THIS YEAR ALONE
AND WELL PROJECTIONS VARY, YOU
HEARD THE TREASURY SECRETARY
SAY ABOUT HALF WOULD HAVE TO BE
GIVEN BACK. GIVEN BACK.
WE'VE SEEN OTHER ESTIMATES
WHICH PROJECT THAT 71% OF
ANTICIPATED TARIFF REVENUE
WOULD ALL BUT VANISHED IF THE
SUPREME COURT ENDS UP UPHOLDING
THIS DECISION. THIS DECISION.
AND A LOT OF THINGS ARE
FACTORED INTO THESE PROJECTIONS
INCLUDING AS YOU WELL KNOW, THE
U.S. U.S. CREDIT RATE.
CREDIT RATE.
LAST MONTH CITING TARIFF
REVENUES THEY SAID WOULD HELP
SOFTEN THE BLOW FROM ANY FISCAL
HEALTH RISKS WHEN IT COMES TO
THE TAX CUTS FROM THE ONE BIG
BILL. BILL.
IT IS SOMETHING WE ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO BE WATCHING CLOSELY
HERE BUT ALSO PROBABLY WORTH
MENTIONING THAT THIS DOESN'T
MEAN THAT ALL TARIFF REVENUES
ARE GOING TO GO AWAY.
THE TREASURY SECRETARY SAID
THEY ARE LOOKING AT OTHER
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES.
WE KNOW THIS TARIFFS ENACTED
OVER NATIONAL SECURITY CONCERNS
ARE STILL GOING TO BE ON THE
BOOKS BUT STILL, THE TREASURY
SECRETARY SAID THAT IF THE
POWER TO INVOKE TARIFFS GOES
AWAY DUE TO A SUPREME COURT
DECISION, THAT WOULD DIMINISH
THE PRESIDENT'S NEGOTIATING
POWER AND THE ONGOING TRADE
TALKS. TALKS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: TYLER, THANK YOU.
TYLER, THANK YOU.
THIS REMARK ON THIS MORNING,
TARIFF REFUNDS ARE FISCAL
STIMULUS. STIMULUS. LISA: LISA:
WOW. WOW. . .
THAT'S WHAT WE JUST HEARD FROM
KAREN DAWSON, THAT ESSENTIALLY
THE HIGH INTEREST RATES ARE
ALSO STIMULUS BECAUSE THE
INCOME WEALTHY INVESTORS ARE
GETTING FROM THAT SUPERSEDES
ANY KIND OF INTEREST EXPENSE,
AND ACTUALLY IS SOME KIND OF
STIMULUS. STIMULUS.
I WAS ACTUALLY LOOKING AT THE
BUDGET LAB AND THEY CAME OUT
FRIDAY WITH DATA SAYING THAT
ALL TARIFFS ANNOUNCED SO FAR
THIS YEAR WOULD RAISE $2.4
TRILLION STARTING IN 2020 SIX.
UNDER THE INVALIDATION OF I.E.
BUT IT WOULD ONLY RAISE $700
BILLION OVER THE SAME PERIOD.
THAT IS LESS THAN A THIRD OF
THAT REVENUE THAT I THINK WOULD
REALLY MAKE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
IT MIGHT NOT BE GOOD FOR THE
LONG RUN. LONG RUN. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
STIMULUS FOR THE ECONOMY, YEAH.
THIS IS SOMETHING A LOT OF
PEOPLE HAVE SAID HAS SUPPORTED
THIS BOND MARKET AT A TIME WHEN
WE'VE SEEN SOME REAL DISRUPTION
ABROAD. ABROAD. LISA: LISA:
THERE'S BEEN A QUESTION OF HOW
IS JAPAN OR FRANCE GOING TO PAY
FOR THIS? FOR THIS? THE U.S.
THE U.S.
IS GOING TO PAY FOR IT THROUGH
TARIFFS. TARIFFS.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THAT, HOW
MUCH OF A RUNAWAY DO YOU GET
WITH YIELDS ON 10 AND 30 YEAR
DENOMINATION? DENOMINATION?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
JOINING US, KELLY AND SHAW.
-- KELLYANNE SHAW.
IS IT TOO BIG TO FAIL?
>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME
BACK ON. BACK ON.
I TRIED TO TAKE THE WEEKEND OFF
ONLY TO BE SURPRISED BY A LARGE
EXECUTIVE ORDER ON TARIFFS AS
WELL AS NEWS OF THE WEEKEND, SO
NO REST FOR THE TRADE LAWYERS
ANYTIME SOON. ANYTIME SOON.
ARE THESE TARIFFS TOO BIG TO
FAIL? FAIL?
IN SOME CASES YES, SOME CASES
NO. NO.
I DO THINK IF THE PRESIDENT
LOSES THIS CASE BEFORE THE
SUPREME COURT, THAT LOSS OF
TARIFF REVENUE IS GOING TO BE A
TREMENDOUS LOW. TREMENDOUS LOW.
BUT THE ADMINISTRATION HAS SAID
THEY HAVE OTHER TOOLS TO
REIMPOSE, SO IT'S REALLY ABOUT
EVERYTHING THEY'VE COLLECTED TO
DATE. DATE.
I DON'T THINK THE PRESIDENT IS
GOING TO BACK AWAY FROM TARIFF
POLICY ANYTIME SOON.
HE THINKS THAT TARIFFS SHOULD
BE A STRONG FEATURE OF U.S.
ECONOMIC AND FOREIGN-POLICY SO
I DON'T SEE THAT CHANGING.
I DON'T SEE THAT CHANGING. LISA:
LISA:
HOW MUCH DO YOU SEE COMPANIES
LINING UP TO PREPARE FOR THE IN
STATING OF THIS DECISION, THE
IDEA THAT THE TARIFFS ARE NOT
GOING TO BE CALLED
CONSTITUTIONAL? CONSTITUTIONAL?
HOW MUCH ARE THEY LEADING UP TO
TRY TO GET THOSE REBATES?
KELLY ANN: KELLY ANN:
I THINK COMPANIES ARE
DEFINITELY WEIGHING THEIR
OPTIONS AND TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT IS GOING ON,
WHERE THE COURT MIGHT GO.
CERTAINLY TALKING TO A LOT OF
DIFFERENT IMPORTERS ABOUT THIS
AND KEEPING THEM UPDATED AS THE
STATUS. STATUS.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY,
EVERYONE IS HOLDING THEIR
BREATH TO SEE WITH THE SUPREME
COURT DOES AND NOBODY IS MAKING
DECISIONS BASED ON A COURT CASE
UNTIL WE REALLY KNOW THE
OUTCOME. OUTCOME. LISA: LISA:
HOW MUCH ARE PEOPLE MORE
CONCERNED ABOUT THE ONGOING
INSTIGATING OF THE TARIFFS
UNDER AIPA VS. UNDER AIPA VS.
THE IDEA THAT HE COULD REALLY
SHAKE THE BUDGET AND SHAKE THE
QUESTIONS AROUND HOW LONG THE
RECENT TAX CUTS CAN REMAIN IN
PLACE? PLACE?
IN OTHER WORDS, ARE THE TAX
CUTS MORE BENEFICIAL TO THE
CLIENT THAT YOU WORK WITH THAN
THE TARIFF THAT THEY HAVE TO
PAY? PAY? KELLY ANN: KELLY ANN:
YEAH. YEAH.
WHAT HAS BEEN INTERESTING TO
SEE PARTICULARLY FOR THOSE WHO
ARE IN THE MARKET, THE MARKET
HAS REALLY COME FULL CIRCLE
FROM APRIL WHERE THERE IS A
TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF NEGATIVE
REACTION TO THE PRESIDENT'S
TARIFF POLICY. TARIFF POLICY.
TODAY, YOU ACTUALLY SEE THAT
THE MARKET THE MARKET
WITH THIS POTENTIAL
LITIGATION, IT REALLY DEPENDS
WHAT SECTOR YOU ARE IN.
THOSE IN MANUFACTURING SECTORS
VS. VS. OTHERS WHO RELY ON MORE
OTHERS WHO RELY ON MORE
DIVERSIFIED SUPPLY CHAINS WILL
HAVE DIFFERENT REACTIONS TO
THESE TARIFFS, INCLUDING SOME
OF THE COUNTRY-BASED TARIFFS.
IT IS REALLY A PRETTY STRONG
MIXED ACROSS THE BOARD.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
I'D LIKE SOME CLARITY FROM YOUR
SIDE. SIDE.
39% TARIFFS ON COUNTRIES LIKE
SWITZERLAND. SWITZERLAND.
THE PRESIDENT OVER THE WEEKEND
IN THE ROLEX BOX WHICH GOT MY
ATTENTION AND MANY OTHERS AS
WELL. WELL.
WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH
RELATIONSHIP THAT WE THOUGHT
WERE PRETTY GOOD?
I'VE BEEN CONFUSED BY THIS.
IF YOU'D ASKED ME ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THIS
ADMINISTRATION AND THE SWISS,
THAT WAS FANTASTIC IN THE FIRST
TERM. TERM.
WHAT HAS HAPPENED IN THE SECOND
TERM? TERM? KELLY ANN:
KELLY ANN:
THAT'S BEEN A VERY INTERESTING
RELATIONSHIP TO WATCH, IN PART
BECAUSE WORD ON THE STREET HAD
BEEN THAT THE SWISS WERE SOME
OF THE FIRST COUNTRIES TO INK A
DEAL WITH THE ADMINISTRATION,
IT WAS JUST PENDING THAT FINAL
SIGNOFF BY THE PRESIDENT AND
THEN OF COURSE WHEN THE
PRESIDENT HAD HIS CALL WITH THE
LEADER OF SWITZERLAND, THAT
DEAL SEEMED TO FOLLOW A
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT THE SIZE OF
THAT $40 BILLION TRADE DEFICIT
WITH A COUNTRY OF 9 MILLION
PEOPLE. PEOPLE.
SO WHAT YOU ARE SEEING PLAY OUT
IS EXACTLY WHAT THE PRESIDENT
TALKED ABOUT DURING HIS FIRST
TERM AND IT IS THE FACT THAT
EVEN IF YOU ARE OUR ALLY OR OUR
FRIEND, FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
REASONS, AT THE SAME TIME HE'S
GOING TO HOLD THEIR FEET TO THE
FIRE WHERE THERE IS THAT TRADE
IMBALANCE OR IN SWITZERLAND'S
CASE, A LARGE DEFICIT.
I DO THINK THAT RELATIONSHIP
WILL ULTIMATELY WORK OUT FOR
ALL OF THE REASONS YOU CAN
UNDERSTAND AND SUSPECT, BUT
REALLY IT'S ABOUT ADDRESSING
THAT $40 MILLION -- $40 BILLION
TRADE DEFICIT AND I THINK WE
WILL SEE SOME LOWER TARIFFS.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
YOU WANT MANUFACTURING TO BUILD
IN PLACES LIKE GEORGIA, A SOUTH
KOREAN AUTOMAKER.
YOU KNOW WHERE I'M GOING WITH
THIS. THIS.
HOORAY BY ICE -- GRADES BUT --
RAIDS BY ICE. RAIDS BY ICE.
HOW DIFFICULT IS IT TO MOVE
MANUFACTURING FROM ABROAD TO
THE UNITED STATES?
THE UNITED STATES? KELLY ANN:
KELLY ANN:
IT'S STILL VERY DYNAMIC.
WE HAVE A BIT MORE CERTAINTY
WERE SOME OF THESE TARIFFS ARE
LIKELY TO LAND, ALTHOUGH THEY
COULD GO UP OR DOWN.
IN TERMS OF MAKING SOME OF
THESE INVESTMENT DECISIONS,
EVEN JUST LOOKING AT THE TARIFF
LANDSCAPE THERE REMAINS
UNCERTAINTY THAT COMPANIES ARE
HAVING TO WAY. HAVING TO WAY.
ALTHOUGH THE ADMINISTRATION'S
MESSAGE IS JUST BUILD HERE AND
YOU WON'T GET TARIFFS.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHER
POLICIES THAT NEED TO FALL INTO
PLACE, SO EVEN LOOKING AT THE
PHARMACEUTICAL SECTOR IS NOT
JUST ABOUT BUILDING PLANTS AND
FACTORIES HERE, IT IS ABOUT THE
FDA APPROVAL PROCESS.
EVERY SECTOR YOU GO DOWN HAS
ITS OWN UNIQUE FEATURES THAT
NEED TO BE ADDRESSED TO REALLY
BRING MUCH OF THIS
MANUFACTURING HOME, SO WE
STARTED HEAVY ON THE TRADE
POLICY, HEAVY ON THE TAX
POLICY, HEAVY ON THE TAX POLICY.
POLICY. NOW IT'S TIME FOR THE
NOW IT'S TIME FOR THE
ADMINISTRATION TO REALLY WORK
ON MORE OF THESE DOMESTIC
POLICIES TO FINISH THAT
STORYLINE. STORYLINE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE YOUR TAKE AS ALWAYS.
STUNNING PICTURES COMING OUT OF
GEORGIA OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS.
LISA: LISA: 450 PEOPLE ARRESTED.
450 PEOPLE ARRESTED.
THE WARRANTS WERE INITIALLY FOR
FOUR PEOPLE, AND I BELIEVE THIS
WAS THE LARGEST ONE SPOT ARREST
THAT WE SEEN FROM ICE SO FAR.
IT RAISES A QUESTION EXACTLY TO
YOUR POINT, HOW DO
INTERNATIONAL COMPANIES CREATE
PLANTS IN THE UNITED STATES AND
STAFF THEM? STAFF THEM?
WE HEARD FROM THE PRESIDENT
ABOUT WHAT HIS TAKE ON THAT
ABOUT WHAT HIS TAKE ON THAT WAS.
WAS. HOW CONSISTENT HAS THE
HOW CONSISTENT HAS THE
RELATIONSHIP BEEN WITH SOME OF
OUR TRADING PARTNERS AND HOW
MUCH DO THEY HAVE A SENSE OF
EXACTLY WHAT THEY CAN DO TO
APPEASE THE PRESIDENT?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
BOND VIGILANTES WATCHING
POLITICAL TURMOIL IN BOTH JAPAN
AND IN FRANCE. AND IN FRANCE.
JIM BLANCO. JIM BLANCO.
ROBINHOOD OF 7.5%.
ROBINHOOD OF 7.5%. -- UP 7.5%.
-- UP 7.5%.
♪ ♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY,
WELCOME BACK TO THE PROGRAM.
BOUNCING BACK FROM FRIDAY'S
LOSSES ON THE NASDAQ UP BY 0.4,
THE RUSSELL UP EVERY SINGLE
WEEK SINCE THAT VERY WEEK JULY
PAYROLL REPORT THAT WE SAW IN
AUGUST. THE BOND MARKETS,
TWO-YEAR DOWN ANOTHER SINGLE
BASIS POINT, 3.49 .
WEEK PAYROLLS REPORT ON FRIDAY.
BASICALLY REINFORCING THE
FUTURE OF SEPTEMBER AND MAY BE
SIGNAL THERE IS MORE TO COME.
LISA: LISA:
MAY BE BY 50 BASIS POINTS.
HOW WEAK DOES CPI HAVE TO BE TO
REALLY REINFORCE THIS?
DOES THIS MEAN IT'S GUNS
BLAZING OR DOES IT MEAN WATCH
OUT BECAUSE THERE'S MORE ON THE
WAY? WAY? JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
CPI A FEW DAYS AWAY, THAT IS
THE PRICE ACTION.
THREE HOURS AWAY FROM THE
OPENING BELL. OPENING BELL.
DANI: DANI:
ANOTHER DAY OF GAINS FOR TESLA.
THIS STOCK WAS UP MORE THAN 5%
LAST WEEK. LAST WEEK.
ALL OF THAT AROUND ELON MUSK'S
PAY PACKAGE THAT COULD MEET A
$1 TRILLION OVER THE NEXT 10
YEARS IF YOU MET CERTAIN VERY
HIGH METRICS. HIGH METRICS.
UP 1.4 PERCENT. UP 1.4 PERCENT.
SPEAKING OF THE S&P 500, WE GOT
THE REBALANCING OF THE INDEX.
ROBINHOOD, THE APP MONETIZATION
COMPANY BOTH ADDED IN, JUMPING
MORE THAN 6.3%. MORE THAN 6.3%.
THIS MOVE REALLY HELPING THE
SHAREHOLDER BASE EMPHASIZING
THEIR PROFITABILITY PATH.
WITH THE WINNERS THERE ARE
LOSERS, ONE OF THEM WAS
MICROSTRATEGY. MICROSTRATEGY.
IT WAS POTENTIALLY A COMPANY
RALLYING THAT OFF TO GET INTO
THE S&P 500. THE S&P 500.
THE COMMITTEE DECIDES THESE
THINGS. THINGS.
THOSE SHARES FALLING 2%.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE THE UPDATE.
MORE ABOUT 60 MINUTES FROM NOW
FROM DANI. FROM DANI.
THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC COUNCIL
DIRECTOR BACKING CRITICISM OF
THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
THE CENTRAL BANK IS PUTTING ITS
INDEPENDENCE AND CREDIBILITY AT
STAKE. STAKE.
PRESIDENT DONALD TRUMP CALLING
ON FOREIGN COMPANIES TO RESPECT
IMMIGRATION LAWS.
THIS WAS AFTER AN IMMIGRATION
RAID IN GEORGIA WITH DHS
CALLING US THAT -- CALLING IT
THE LARGEST. THE LARGEST.
JAPAN WILL NOW WAIT A NEW
PRIME MINISTER TO TAKE OFFICE
ABOUT ONE YEAR AFTER ISHIBA
TOOK THE ROLE. TOOK THE ROLE.
LISA: LISA:
THIS IS NOT HELPING THE YEN.
THE PRIME MINISTER HAD A PLAN
TO TRY TO TAMP DOWN SOME OF THE
DEBT. DEBT.
ALSO ENCOURAGING THE BANK OF
JAPAN TO RAISE INTEREST RATES.
ALL OF THE POTENTIAL SUCCESSORS
ARE BILLED AS LESS FISCALLY
CREDIBLE WHICH RAISES THIS
QUESTION, WILL JAPAN BECOME A
NOTE TO VOLATILITY?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
IT HAS BEEN AN ANCHOR KEEPING
YIELDS DOWN. YIELDS DOWN.
A GOVERNMENT COULD COME IN NOW
TALKING ABOUT FISCAL EASING,
NOT FISCAL CONSERVATISM.
THAT COULD BE ANOTHER BIG
CHANGE. CHANGE.
THE BANK OF JAPAN WILL HAVE TO
MAKE ANOTHER MOVE.
MAKE ANOTHER MOVE. LISA: LISA:
THE PRIME MINISTER DID
NEGOTIATE THE TRADE DEAL WITH
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION.
IT IS NOT JUST JAPAN.
WE ALSO HAVE A NO-CONFIDENCE
VOTE IN FRANCE WITH THE SAME
TENSION PLAYING OUT THERE WITH
THE PRIME MINISTER OVER IN
FRANCE. FRANCE.
QUESTIONS ABOUT GLOBALLY
WHETHER THE SHIFT IN THE REGIME
OF DEVELOPED MARKETS TRADING
MORE LIKE EMERGING MARKETS WITH
REALLY A DOOM LOOP OF WEAKER
CURRENCY, HIGHER BOND YIELDS,
IN THE FACE OF A DEFICIT THAT
REALLY DOES SEEM LESS
CONTROLLABLE. CONTROLLABLE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
LET'S STAY ON THAT AND GO TO
EUROPE. EUROPE.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF FENSKE --
FRANCE, HIS GOVERNMENT FACING A
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE.
THIS COULD LEAD TO ANOTHER
GOVERNMENT COLLAPSE.
WE ARE JOINED TO NOW, GOOD
MORNING WHAT CAN WE EXPECT ON
THE PROCESS FROM THE DAY AHEAD?
>> THIS BEGINS AT THE NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY WHERE THEY WILL HOLD A
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE ON THE
GOVERNMENT OF FRANCE.
YOU WATCH INTERVIEWS HE HAS
BEEN GIVING TRYING TO RALLY
SUPPORT AND MANY OF THEM ARE
STARTING WITH JOURNALISTS
SAYING YOU HAVE A FEW DAYS
LEFT, HOW DOES THAT FEEL.
THIS SEEMS LIKE A FOREGONE
CONCLUSION. CONCLUSION.
IN EIGHT HOURS WILL BE EXPECT
THIS GOVERNMENT TO FALL AND THE
VOTE TO BE COMPLETED, THE PATH
FORWARD IS NOT ANY EASIER FOR
EMMANUEL MACRON.
A GREAT MANY OF THESE PEOPLE
FROM THE NETHERLANDS, GERMANY,
UNITED KINGDOM. UNITED KINGDOM.
YOU HAVE THIS MASSIVE
FRAGMENTATION THAT CAN'T AGREE
ON ANYTHING. ON ANYTHING.
YOU HAVE THREE OPTIONS, INSTALL
A NEW PRIME MINISTER, A
CENTRIST PERSON, AND THAAD TO
THE LEFT TO BRING IN THE
SOCIALISTS. SOCIALISTS.
THAT WILL NOT MAKE THE PRIVATE
SECTOR PARTICULARLY HAPPY.
YOU CAN CALL A LEGISLATIVE
ELECTION. ELECTION.
THE FINAL OPTION IS WHAT THE
FAR-RIGHT IS GOING FOR, THE
RESIGNATION OF EMMANUEL MACRON.
HE SAYS HE WILL SERVE THE REST
OF HIS TERM UNTIL 2027.
DRAGGING ON ANOTHER EUROPEAN
STORY. STORY.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE DEBT
SITUATION, THE GOVERNMENT
HASN'T GONE INTO FULL VIGILANTE
MODE. MODE.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT PARTICULARLY
THE OTHER EUROPEAN NATIONS.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THANK YOU, BUSY DAY AHEAD FOR
ALL OVER. ALL OVER.
-- AOLIVER. -- AOLIVER.
JOINING US NOW IS JIM BIANCO.
WE SAW THAT IN THE LAST FEW
WEEKS IN JAPAN, RECORD HIGHS,
THE GOOD NEWS IN THE UNITED
STATES, 5% OF THE 30 YEAR.
SOMETHING HAS CHANGED.
WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON WHY
THINGS HAVE CHANGED?
THINGS HAVE CHANGED? JIM: JIM:
IF YOU START WITH JAPAN, THEY
CALCULATE TAXES IN THE
INFLATION RATE. INFLATION RATE.
IF YOU TAKE THAT OUT IT IS
HIGHER THAN THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE FIRST TIME IN 50 YEARS.
THEY HAVE A REAL INFLATION
PROBLEM. PROBLEM.
WE HAVE A DEBT TO GDP TWICE OF
THAT. THAT.
YOU BORROW MASSIVELY, HAS
INFLATION, TALKING ABOUT
INFLATION, TALKING ABOUT EASING.
EASING.
IN EUROPE, THEY HAVE SOMETHING
SIMILAR TO THAT.
THEY HAVE HIGH, HUGE DEFICITS.
THEY HAVE A LOSS OF CONFIDENCE.
FRANCE, THEIR 10 YEAR YIELD IS
WITHIN 10 YEAR YIELD -- IS IT
WITHIN 10 YEARS OF ITALY.
THEY ARE A HANDFUL OF BASIS
POINTS AWAY FROM DOING THAT.
WHO WOULD'VE THOUGHT THE ROCK
OF STABILITY FOR EUROPE IS
ITALY? ITALY?
MAYBE THAT SAYS A LOT ABOUT
EUROPE. EUROPE. LISA: LISA:
MAYBE IT SAYS ITALY IS IN
BETTER SHAPE BECAUSE PEOPLE
LIKE TO VISIT. LIKE TO VISIT.
ON ONE HAND YOU COULD SAY
YIELDS HIGHER IN JAPAN, YIELDS
HIGHER IN FRANCE, YIELDS HIGHER
IN GREAT BRITAIN ALL LEAD TO
HIGHER LONG-TERM YIELDS AND
DEVELOPED MARKETS GLOBALLY.
THERE'S ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING
ACTUALLY THIS MAKES THE U.S.
LOOKS LIKE EVEN MORE OF A
LOOKS LIKE EVEN MORE OF A HAVEN.
HAVEN.
EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE DOUBTS
ABOUT THE U.S. ABOUT THE U.S.
FISCAL SITUATION.
WHAT SIDE DO YOU LINE UP ON?
JIM: JIM:
ALL THE DEVELOPED WORLD
GOVERNMENT BONDS TRADE MORE OR
LESS IN LOCKSTEP.
IT WILL PUT PRESSURE ON THE
IT WILL PUT PRESSURE ON THE U.S.
U.S.
YOU COULD ARGUE IT HAS PUT SOME
PRESSURE ON THE U.S.
DESPITE WHATEVER WE THINK ABOUT
FALLING INFLATION AND
EVERYTHING IN THE U.S.
GOING WELL. GOING WELL.
WE WERE 3.6 PERCENT ON THE 10
YEAR YIELD A YEAR AGO AND NOW
WE ARE AT 4.1, WE WERE 4.2 ON
FRIDAY. FRIDAY.
WE HAVE HIGHER YIELDS.
NOT AS HIGH AS THOSE ARE.
THERE'S ANOTHER WARNING SIGN.
ALL OF THE EUROPEAN MARKETS ARE
CUTTING RATES. CUTTING RATES.
THIS IDEA THAT YOU HEAR IN THE
MARKETPLACE CUT RATES AND THEY
GO DOWN, IT DIDN'T WORK LAST
YEAR WITH THE FED CUT RATES.
IT'S NOT WORKING IN EUROPE
PUSHING LONG-TERM YIELDS DOWN.
LISA: LISA:
THIS IS TRUE IF YOU HAVE A FED
THAT IS BIASED TO CUT RATES
EVEN IF INFLATION IS TAME.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY TRUE IF
THE FED IS CUTTING RATES, WHICH
IS WHAT A NUMBER OF TRADERS ARE
PRICING IN. PRICING IN.
WHERE DO YOU SEE THINGS SHAKING
OUT? OUT?
IS THIS A FED THAT IS BIASED TO
CUT OR IS THIS REALLY A FED
GRAPPLING WITH A DRAMATICALLY
WEAKENING BACKDROP IN THE
UNITED STATES? UNITED STATES?
JIM: JIM: IT'S A FED GRAPPLING.
IT'S A FED GRAPPLING.
CHAIRMAN POWELL SAID HE AND
JACKSON HOLE THAT LABOR SUPPLY
AND LABOR DEMAND ARE FOLLOWING
AND HE USED THE WORD ODDLY
IMBALANCED. IMBALANCED.
WHAT HE MEANS IS THE THING WE
DON'T TALK ABOUT WHEN IT COMES
TO THE PAYROLL REPORT.
WE TALK ABOUT HOW MANY
CONSTRUCTION JOBS WE HAD OR
RETAIL JOBS WE HAD.
WE ARE NOT TALKING ABOUT HOW
MANY DO WE NEED?
HOW MANY DO YOU DO -- DOES THE
UNITED STATES NEED TO BREAK
EVEN? EVEN?
THAT IS DRIVEN BY POPULATION.
WE HAVE CLOSE THE BORDER.
OUR POPULATION GROWTH MIGHT BE
APPROACHING ZERO.
22,000 JOBS MIGHT BE ALL WE
NEED. NEED.
IF IT IS ALL WE NEED WE DON'T
HAVE ANY EXCESS CAPACITY.
IF THE FED WANTS TO CUT RATES,
THEY WILL JUST CREATE MORE
INFLATION. INFLATION.
THIS IS THE QUESTION THAT NEEDS
TO BE DISCUSSED.
THE CHAIRMAN ADMITTED IT IS
ODDLY IMBALANCED.
HE SAID I'M AFRAID THINGS MIGHT
BE GOING BAD SO WE NEED TO CUT
RATES ANYWAY. RATES ANYWAY.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
IT REMINDS ME SOMETHING SAID
ABOUT BREXIT, THE SPEED LIMIT
OF THE U.K. OF THE U.K.
ECONOMY CHANGED BEFORE
INFLATION PICKS UP BECAUSE OF
THE DAMAGE TO THE SUPPLY SIDE
OF THE ECONOMY. OF THE ECONOMY.
DO YOU THINK THE FED IS THERE
AND YOU THINK IT RAISES
QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT IT MIGHT
PROVIDE AFTER CUTTING RATES
THIS WEEK? THIS WEEK? JIM: JIM:
I THINK THE FED IS THERE, THEY
UNDERSTAND THE ARGUMENT AND THE
SUPPLY SIDE IS COMING DOWN
RAPIDLY. RAPIDLY.
WHERE THEIR PROBLEM IS, IT IS A
POLITICAL PROBLEM.
DOES THE CHAIRMAN WANT TO GO TO
THE LECTURE NEXT WEEK AND SAY
20,000 JOBS IS ENOUGH FOR THE
UNITED STATES BECAUSE WE HAVE
NO POPULATION GROWTH?
HE'S DEFINITELY AFRAID TO SAY
THAT. THAT.
IF HE DOESN'T HE'S WRONG THE
WHOLE INSTITUTION WILL BE
PERMANENTLY DAMAGED.
THEY WILL AIR ON THE SIDE OF
USING. USING.
ARE THEY AIRING BY EASING?
THAT WILL ONLY BE KNOWN AFTER
TIME WHETHER THEY DO OVER
STIMULATE. STIMULATE.
SOMETHING HAS CHANGED IN THE
SUPPLY DYNAMICS OF OUR LABOR
MARKET AND WE NEED TO
UNDERSTAND IT. UNDERSTAND IT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THERE'S A SIMPLE WAY TO
NAVIGATE THAT THOUGH, YOU COULD
ANCHOR YOUR VIEW AROUND
UNEMPLOYMENT OR PAYROLL GROWTH.
IN THE LAST NEWS CONFERENCE HE
ANCHORED IT AROUND
ANCHORED IT AROUND UNEMPLOYMENT.
UNEMPLOYMENT.
IN JACKSON HOLE IT SEEMED TO BE
ABOUT PAYROLL GROWTH.
ABOUT PAYROLL GROWTH. JIM: JIM:
HE HAS NOT BEEN CONSISTENT
AROUND THAT. AROUND THAT.
ANCHORING ON UNEMPLOYMENT YOU
ARE LOOKING AT DEMAND
INDICATORS. INDICATORS.
OUR COMPANIES NOT HIRING?
IT LARGELY HASN'T.
4.2% 13 MONTHS AGO.
IT IS FOUR POINT 3% TODAY.
PAYROLL GROWTH COULD BE A
SUPPLY DRIVEN THING.
THE FED HAS BEEN A BIT
CONSISTENT ABOUT THAT.
WE NEVER HAD TO BREAK UP THE
LABOR MARKET, HERE IS THE
SUPPLY AND DEMAND MEASURES.
WE SHOULD BE LOOKING AT THINGS
ABOUT INITIAL CLAIMS AND OTHER
THINGS THAT WOULD BE MORE
SIGNIFYING OF THE DEMAND BY
COMPANIES TO HIRE WORKERS.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE YOU WAKING UP EARLY
FOR US. FOR US.
LOOKING AHEAD TO THE FED
MEETING ABOUT A WEEK AWAY.
MEETING ABOUT A WEEK AWAY. LISA:
LISA:
IT HAS ADDED TO SOME OF THE
CONFUSION. CONFUSION.
SCOTT BESSENT SAYING THERE WILL
LIKELY BE REVISIONS TO THE
UPSIDE WITH RESPECT TO JOBS
FIGURES. FIGURES.
THE LABOR MARKET IS DOING
BETTER . BETTER .
STILL ARGUING FOR RATE CUTS.
IT IS MIND TWISTING ESPECIALLY
GIVEN THE FAKE WE GOT LAST YEAR
IN THE SAME WAY.
IT SPURRED A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT
CUTS BY THE FED.
INCREASING THE LONG END YIELD
CURVE. CURVE.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE TENSIONS
RIGHT NOW. RIGHT NOW. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
TELLING EVERYONE THINGS ARE OK
WHEN PEOPLE ARE SEEING AN
ECONOMY THAT ISN'T.
THAT IS THE RISK THEY RUN.
I HOPE WE SEE AN ACCELERATION
BOUNCE BACK ONCE WE HAVE
CLARITY ON POLICY.
WE ARE JUST NOT SEEING THE
LABOR MARKET. LABOR MARKET.
THE DATA IS TELLING YOU IT IS
DIFFICULT TO GET A JOB.
DIFFICULT TO GET A JOB. LISA:
LISA:
THE REASON THERE IS INCREASING
POLITICAL PRESSURE FOR THEM TO
DO SOMETHING. DO SOMETHING.
DOES THIS MARKET BELIEVED 25 OR
50 RACES -- RATE CUT, THE LONG
AND SEEMS TO INDICATE MORE
MOTIVATED BY THE ECONOMY.
TRYING TO SQUARE THAT WITH A
RALLY IN SMALL CAPS IS REALLY
WHAT WE ARE HAVING ISSUES WITH.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EQUITY FUTURES UP AGAIN THIS
MORNING BY ONE QUARTER OF 1%.
WITH YOUR STORIES ELSEWHERE ON
THE BLOOMBERG BRIEF HERE IS
YAHAIRA. YAHAIRA. YAHAIRA:
YAHAIRA:
SCOTT BESSENT SAYS THE U.S.
AND EUROPE ARE TALKING ABOUT
SANCTIONS AND SECONDARY TARIFFS
ON RUSSIA WITH THE HOPE OF
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE AS HE PUT IT
WILL BRING VLADIMIR PUTIN TO
PEACE TALKS WITH UKRAINE.
RUSSIA IS UNDER SANCTIONS FROM
THE U.S. THE U.S.
AND EUROPE BUT HAS FOUND BUYERS
FOR RUSSIA GAS IN INDIA AND
ELSEWHERE. ELSEWHERE.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAYS HAMAS
NEEDS TO ACCEPT ITS TERMS TO
END THE WAR WITH ISRAEL.
IT COMES AFTER TRUMP'S ENVOY TO
THE MIDDLE EAST SEND A NEW
PROPOSAL TO HAMAS FOR A HOSTAGE
AND CEASE-FIRE DEAL.
HAMAS SAYS IT NEEDS A CLEAR
DECLARATION AND ISRAELI
COMMITMENT TO ENDING WAR AND A
FULL TROOP WITHDRAWAL FROM THE
GAZA STRIP. GAZA STRIP.
THOUSANDS OF LONDON UNDERGROUND
STAFF HAVE LAUNCHED A WEEKLONG
STRIKE. STRIKE.
STAFF ARE PROTESTING PAY AND
WORKING CONDITIONS.
THE TRANSIT OPERATORS SAY THERE
ARE EXPECTED TO BE FEW OR NO
TRAINS RUNNING TODAY THROUGH
THURSDAY. THURSDAY.
NO TALKS BETWEEN THE UNION AND
MANAGEMENT ARE CURRENTLY
SCHEDULED. SCHEDULED. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
WHENEVER THIS USED TO HAPPEN
WHEN I WAS IN LONDON I WOULD
GET LOST. IT IS NOT ACTUALLY
THE PROPER MAP. THE PROPER MAP.
YOU WOULD COME UPSTAIRS AND TRY
AND WALK HOME AND NOT KNOW
WHERE YOU ARE GOING.
WHERE YOU ARE GOING. LISA: LISA:
I HAD THIS SITUATION IN THE
EARLY 2000S IN NEW YORK THERE
WAS A STRIKE IN THE SUBWAY.
I TOOK A FERRY TO COME AND GET
TO WORK. TO WORK.
BY THE TIME I GOT TO WORK I WAS
SO EXHAUSTED I WAS READY TO GO
HOME. HOME.
LET'S HOPE IT REOPENS.
LET'S HOPE IT REOPENS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I FEEL FOR LONDONERS THIS WEEK.
UP NEXT ON THE PROGRAM,
CONCERNS ABOUT MISSION CREEK.
>> WHAT IS YOUR PLAN TO
OVERHAUL THE FED?
>> I DON'T HAVE A PLAN RIGHT
NOW. NOW.
>> WOULD YOU ENDORSE WHAT
SECRETARY BESSENT WROTE?
>> YES.
>> YES. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THAT QUESTION UP NEXT WITH
ELLEN ZENTER OF MORGAN STANLEY.
♪ ♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
BIG WEEK AHEAD FOR INFLATION
DATA. DATA.
CPI DROPPING ON THURSDAY.
EQUITIES AT THE MOMENT POSITIVE
BY A QUARTER OF 1%.
NASDAQ UP 0.4. NASDAQ UP 0.4.
CONCERNS ABOUT MISSION CREEK.
>> SECRETARY BESSENT TALKED
ABOUT THE CENTRAL BANK'S
INDEPENDENCE BEING UNDER THREAT
DUE TO MISSION CREEP WHAT IS
YOUR PLAN? YOUR PLAN?
>> I DON'T HAVE A PLAN TO
OVERHAUL THE FED RIGHT NOW.
>> YOU WOULD BE PREPARED TO
IMPLEMENT THAT VISION IF YOU
WERE DRAMMEN -- CHAIRMAN?
>> IT IS A HYPOTHETICAL.
>> JONATHAN: THE CONCERNS ABOUT
MISSION CREEP, THE FED'S NEW
OPERATING MODEL IS EFFECTIVELY
A GAME OF FUNCTION MILITARY
POLICY EXPERIMENT.
OVERUSE OF NONSTANDARD
POLICIES, THE FED MUST CHANGE
COURSE. COURSE.
JOINING US NOW TO DISCUSS,
CHIEF ECONOMIC STRATEGIST AT
MORGAN STANLEY, ELLEN ZENTER.
WHAT WAS YOUR TAKE AWAY?
WHAT WAS YOUR TAKE AWAY? ELLEN:
ELLEN:
MISSION CREEP IS ONE WAY TO
READ -- REDIRECT THE FOCUS ON
THE FED. THE FED.
YOU HAVE 300 PHD ECONOMISTS
RUNNING AROUND AND MAYBE IT'S A
LITTLE BIT OF AN ECHO CHAMBER.
THEY ARE HAVING CONCERNS BEFORE
THIS ABOUT MISSION CREEP ON THE
REGULATORY FRONT.
GET RID OF THAT AND YOU COULD
FOCUS ON THE SETTING OF
MONETARY POLICY.
THAT IS NOT GOING TO GIVE THE
PRESIDENT WHAT HE WANTS.
IT DOES REDIRECT THE FOCUS ON
OTHER CHANGES NEEDED.
OTHER CHANGES NEEDED. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
IS THE PRESIDENT ABOUT TO GET
WHAT HE WANTS ANYWAY?
WHAT HE WANTS ANYWAY? ELLEN:
ELLEN: I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T KNOW.
I'M SURE HE WANTS AND FOMC
TILTED TOWARDS HIS MONETARY
POLICY AND WHAT IT SHOULD LOOK
LIKE. LIKE.
YOU WANT TO BE REALLY
AGGRESSIVE HERE.
IF YOU ARE THINKING ABOUT
POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS ON THE
FED AND BOARD OF GOVERNORS, IT
TILTS AWAY FROM THE PRESIDENT'S
IDEA OF MONETARY POLICY.
IDEA OF MONETARY POLICY. LISA:
LISA:
IS IT SORT OF BE CAREFUL WHAT
YOU WISH FOR? YOU WISH FOR?
IS THE FED POISED TO CUT RATES
FOR THE WRONG REASONS BECAUSE
THE ECONOMY IS WEAKENING?
THE ECONOMY IS WEAKENING? ELLEN:
ELLEN:
YES, THAT IS ABSOLUTELY
YES, THAT IS ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
CORRECT.
THE FED WILL CUT 25 BASIS
POINTS IN SEPTEMBER AND IT
WON'T BE ENOUGH.
THEY WILL CUT 25 BASIS POINTS
THE NEXT MEETING AND IT WON'T
BE ENOUGH. BE ENOUGH.
IT WILL BE ENOUGH TO SATISFY
THE PRESIDENT. THE PRESIDENT.
-- WON'T BE ENOUGH TO SATISFY
AS A CAREFUL THINKER LOOKING AT
THE ECONOMY, YOU CANNOT SIT ON
THE FOMC TODAY AND SAY RATES
NEED TO BE DRASTICALLY LOWER.
THEY ARE TOO TIGHT.
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU HAVE A
PLETHORA OF WEAKENING DATA ON
THE LABOR MARKET.
IT IS EASY TO LOOK AT THESE
NUMBERS AND SAY WE DON'T NEED
TO BE AS RESTRICTIVE.
WE COULD MAKE SOME MODEST
CHANGES HERE. CHANGES HERE.
ONE CUT WILL NOT BE ENOUGH.
MORE THAN A HANDFUL OF CUTS IS
GOING TO BE TOO MUCH.
WE ARE SET FOR OUR SOME REAL
ACCELERATION EARLY NEXT YEAR.
LISA: LISA:
PEOPLE ALWAYS LOOK FOR WHAT IS
THAT TERMINAL RATE?
FOR MANY MONTHS IT WAS ABOVE
FOR MANY MONTHS IT WAS ABOVE 3%.
3%. WE HAVE GONE BELOW THAT.
WE HAVE GONE BELOW THAT.
I WONDER IF YOU AGREE WITH
I WONDER IF YOU AGREE WITH THAT.
THAT. ELLEN: ELLEN:
THE BOND MARKET IS IN A
DIFFICULT SPOT. DIFFICULT SPOT.
IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT THE
LIKELY PATH OF THE ECONOMY WE
HAVE GOT BUSINESS INVESTMENT
THAT IS BROADENING OUT MORE SO
OUTSIDE OF TECH.
YOU HAVE A RECORD HIGH TAX
REFUND SEASON THAT IS COMING.
YOU SAY WE COULD ADJUST RATES
MAY BE 75 BASIS POINTS, 100
BASIS POINTS HERE OVER THE NEXT
SEVERAL MEETINGS.
BASED ON JUST ECONOMIC FACTORS
YOU REALLY SHOULDN'T GO FURTHER
THAN THE ECONOMY SET TO
RE-ACCELERATE NEXT YEAR.
WHERE THE BOND MARKET MIGHT BE
PRICING AND IS UP TO MAY WE
COULD PROBABLY BE SURE THE FED
IS GOING TO DO WHAT'S RIGHT FOR
THE ECONOMY. THE ECONOMY.
AFTER MAY, NO IDEA.
THE ODDS ARE LOWER THAN HIGHER.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
BEFORE WE TALK ABOUT MAY OF
NEXT YEAR, PAYROLL REVISIONS ON
CPI, HOW ARE YOU THINKING ABOUT
THESE DATA POINTS THIS WEEK?
ELLEN: ELLEN:
WE COULD SURMISE THEY WILL BE
NET DOWNWARDS. NET DOWNWARDS.
THOSE REVISIONS ARE COVERED
THROUGH MARCH OF THIS YEAR.
IT IS ALREADY A WEAKER BACKDROP
FOR THE LABOR MARKET.
YOU COULD LOOK AT THAT AND SAY
UNDER BIDEN'S ECONOMY THOSE ARE
JOBS THAT WILL BE EVEN WEAKER
THAN BEFORE, IT'S ONLY A COUPLE
OF MONTHS INTO TRUMP'S
PRESIDENCY. PRESIDENCY.
IT SETS THE TRAJECTORY LOWER AT
A TIME WHEN WE HAVE GOT CHANGE
IN STAFF AT BLS.
YOU WILL PROBABLY SEE SOME
CHANGES THIS WEEK AS WELL.
CAN WE TRUST THIS?
THERE WILL CONTINUE TO BE A LOT
OF VOLATILITY AROUND THIS DATA.
THE INFLATION DATA IS SECONDARY
FOR ME THIS WEEK.
I TRUST THE DATA, I TRUST THAT
IT IS AS GOOD AS IT HAS EVER
BEEN. BEEN.
WE TRIED TO DELIVER A MASSIVE
DATA SET WHERE YOU COULD CHANGE
THE ADJUSTMENT FACTOR BY 0.001
PERCENTAGE POINTS AND IT GIVES
YOU AN 80,000 DIFFERENCE ON
PAYROLL. PAYROLL.
WHO IS TO SAY WHAT IS RIGHT OR
WRONG? WRONG? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
GOOD TO SEE YOU AS ALWAYS.
ELLEN ZENTER THEREFROM MORGAN
STANLEY WEALTH MANAGEMENT.
STANLEY WEALTH MANAGEMENT. LISA:
LISA:
THE POTENTIAL STAFF CHANGES AT
BLS RAISES THE QUESTION WHAT
WOULD BE MARKED THE OF THAT BE?
WHAT IS THE PLAN TO TRY TO MAKE
IT BETTER, MORE ACCURATE UNDER
PRESIDENT TRUMP?
I HAVE NO CLEARANCE ON THAT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THINGS ARE GOING TO CHANGE WE
ARE TOLD REPEATEDLY.
EQUITIES, S&P 500 POSITIVE BY
ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF 1%.
COMING INTO THIS WEEK VERY
CLOSE TO ALL-TIME HIGHS EVEN
WITH THE SOFTER THAN EXPECTED
PAYROLLS DATA DELIVERED ON
FRIDAY MORNING. FRIDAY MORNING.
IN THE NEXT HOUR WE WILL CATCH
UP WITH DAN GREENHAUS, FROM NEW
YORK CITY THIS MORNING, GOOD
MORNING. MORNING.
♪ ♪
>> IS BAD NEWS IS GOOD NEWS FOR
THE STOCK MARKET.
-- THIS IS BAD NEWS IS GOOD
NEWS FOR THE STOCK MARKET
BECAUSE THE FED WILL CUT RATES.
>> STOCK MARKETS ARE LOOKING
PAST THE GRAVEYARD A LITTLE
PAST THE GRAVEYARD A LITTLE BIT.
BIT.
>> IT'S ABOUT EARNINGS.
>> LOOK FOR THE COMPANIES THAT
ALLOW YOU TO STAY INVESTED AND
CONTINUE TO STRENGTHEN THE
BALANCE SHEET. BALANCE SHEET.
>> THIS IS BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE WITH JONATHAN
FERRO, LISA ABRAMOWICZ AND
ANNMARIE HORDERN.
ANNMARIE HORDERN. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: GOOD MORNING.
GOOD MORNING.
FOR OUR AUDIENCE WORLDWIDE, THE
SECOND HOUR OF BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE STARTS RIGHT NOW
AND YOUR SCORES LOOK LIKE THIS.
EQUITY FUTURES ON THE S&P 500
ARE POSITED BY A QUARTER OF 1%.
ON THE NASDAQ, UP BY ONE THIRD
OF 1%. OF 1%.
YIELDS LOWER AT THE FRONT END
OF THE CURVE ON THE TWO-YEAR
FOR A FOURTH CONSECUTIVE DAY.
DOWN ABOUT A BASIS POINT TO 3.5
ON THE TWO-YEAR.
THROUGH THE WEEK, WE ARE
LOOKING OUT FOR THIS DATA RIGHT
HERE, INFLATION, PPI WEDNESDAY
AND CPI ON THURSDAY.
THE MAIN EVENT FOR THIS MARKET.
LISA: LISA:
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THE THRESHOLD IS TO CUT
MORE THAN 25 BASIS POINTS NEXT
WEEK. WEEK.
WHAT I FIND INTERESTING IS THE
PAST THREE MONTHS, WE HAVE SEEN
TWO YEAR YIELDS DROP BY 50
BASIS POINTS. BASIS POINTS.
WE HAVE SEEN 10 YEAR YIELDS
DROPPED BY 43 BASIS POINTS.
IS MORE POLITICAL?
-- IS THIS MORE POLITICAL?
OR IS THIS A BELIEF THAT
TARIFFS WILL NOT BE AS
INFLATIONARY AS THEY WERE
PERCEIVED TO BE AND THERE CAN
BE THE SOFT LANDING THAT SO
MANY PEOPLE THOUGHT?
MANY PEOPLE THOUGHT? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: WE HAVE SEEN LIMITED
WE HAVE SEEN LIMITED
PASS-THROUGH FROM TARIFFS
WITHOUT A DOUBT.
THAT CAN CHANGE.
AT THE MOMENT, THE FEDERAL
RESERVE HAS TO CONFIRM A STEP
DOWN IN ECONOMIC ACTIVITY BASED
ON PAYROLLS GROWTH,
DECELERATING TO AN AVERAGE OF
27,000 FROM MAY THROUGH AUGUST.
LISA: LISA:
THERE'S THIS FEELING, SHE
THINKS SOME OF THE REVISIONS
FROM THE BLS WILL BE MORE
IMPORTANT THAN THE CPI PRINT.
WHAT IT WILL SHOW IS THROUGH
MARCH, THE LAKER MARK -- LABOR
MARKET WAS IN A MUCH WEAKER
POSITION THAN IT WAS BELIEVED
TO BE. TO BE.
WE CAME INTO THIS PERIOD WITH
LESS MOMENTUM. LESS MOMENTUM.
IT'S A QUESTION OF HOW FAR HAS
THE ECONOMY DETERIORATED IF
YOU'RE GOING TO MEASURE IT BY
THE LABOR MARKET IN A WAY THAT
WARRANTS THE RATE CUTS?
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT IF THAT IS
POLITICAL OR NOT.
BUT THE MARKET IS SAYING IT IS
WARRANTED BY VIRTUE OF THE FACT
THAT YOU HAVE NOT SEEN YIELD
CURVE STEEPENING.
YOU HAVE SEEN FLATTENING AFTER
THAT NUMBER. THAT NUMBER.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THE MARKET HAS CHANGED A LOT.
LASTLY, WE WERE APPROACHING 5%.
NOW, WE ARE BACK DOWN TO 4.77.
LISA: LISA:
YOU PAIR THAT WITH THE
INTERNATIONAL PICTURE AND YOU
GET A MESS. GET A MESS.
ESSENTIALLY, YOU HAVE THINGS
CREEPING HIGHER AFTER THE
RESIGNATION OF THE PRIME
MINISTER AND THE QUESTION OF A
NO-CONFIDENCE VOTE FROM FRANCE.
AND THE QUESTION THAT GLOBALLY,
THERE IS A DEVEL -- DEVELOPED
MARKET PROBLEM IN THE BOND
MARKET. MARKET. THE U.S.
THE U.S.
WILL BENEFIT FROM DYSFUNCTION
ELSEWHERE. ELSEWHERE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
RECORD HIGHS AT THE LONG END OF
THE JAPANESE CURVE OFF THE BACK
OF THAT POLITICAL INSTABILITY.
IF YOU JUST TUNING IN, WELCOME
TO THE PROGRAM. TO THE PROGRAM.
EQUITIES FOR THE S&P 500 ARE
POSITED BY 1.5%.
COMING UP, DAN GREEN HOUSE,
TOBY MARCUS AND ERIC RESNICK.
WE BEGIN THIS HOUR WITH STOCKS
HITTING ANOTHER RECORD HIGH OUT
OF THIS WEEK'S KEY INFLATION
REPORTS. REPORTS.
DAN WRITES WE ARE PROBABLY IN
FOR A PAUSE HERE, THE
EMPLOYMENT PICTURE IS NOW
SUFFICIENTLY SLOW AS TO LOCK IN
A RATE CUT IN SEPTEMBER.
YOU'VE BEEN ON THE POSITIVE
SIDE WHEN IT COMES TO THIS
ECONOMY, HOW DO YOU REFLECT ON
THE JOB MARKET DATA FROM
THE JOB MARKET DATA FROM FRIDAY?
FRIDAY? DAN: DAN:
IT WASN'T GOOD. IT WASN'T GOOD.
I DON'T THINK I'M BREAKING ANY
NEWS BY SAYING THAT.
I'VE BEEN MORE POSITIVE SINCE
COVID AND SINCE LIBERATION DAY,
IF YOU WILL. IF YOU WILL.
BUT THE LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS,
REALLY SINCE THE EQUITY MARKET
TOOK ITS PRE-LIBERATION DAY HI,
I'VE BEEN A LITTLE MORE
I'VE BEEN A LITTLE MORE CONCERN.
CONCERN.
I THINK THERE IS A SENSE THAT
THE TARIFFED STORY IS A SHIP
THAT HAS SAILED ON THE POSITIVE
SENSE. SENSE.
AS LISA MENTIONED A COUPLE OF
MINUTES AGO, TARIFFS, SOME ARE
SUGGESTING THAT TARIFFS WILL
NOT BE AS WORRISOME AS WE
THOUGHT. THOUGHT.
I LISTEN TO WHAT THE COMPANIES
ARE TELLING ME AND I HEAR THAT
OVER THE 6-9 MONTH PERIOD GOING
FORWARD, SOME OF THE TARIFFS
WILL START TO BE PUT IN PLACE
THAT HAD NOT BEEN PREVIOUSLY
PUT IN PLACE. PUT IN PLACE.
AND I DON'T KNOW THAT WE ARE
NECESSARILY SURE HOW THAT WILL
EVOLVE. EVOLVE.
AND THEN YOU LAY ON TOP OF ALL
OF THE OTHER STUFF THAT'S GOING
DOWN, THE STUFF OUT OF THE JOBS
MARKET. MARKET.
I'M A LITTLE HESITANT RIGHT
HERE, WITH THE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
THAT THE CONSUMER HAS BEEN AND
REMAINS INCREDIBLY RESILIENT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WE WILL SEE THE ACCELERATION
SUPPORT, FUELED BY RATE CUTS.
DO YOU SEE SOME INFLAMMATION
THAT CAN STRENGTHEN THE DOVISH
PASSING OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE?
DAN: DAN:
I HAVE FELT FOR A WHILE THAT
THEY SHOULD CUT 25 IF NOT HAVE
DONE IT ALREADY.
THE RECENT SLOWDOWN AT THE JOBS
MARKET ONLY LOCKS THAT IN.
YOU'VE GOT FOUR MONTHS IN A ROW
WHERE PRIVATE SECTOR JOB
CREATION WAS SEVERAL HUNDRED,
INCLUDING THE NEGATIVE MONTH.
THE LAST TIME WE SAW SOMETHING
LIKE THAT WAS AT THE END OF
2007. 2007.
DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT A
RECESSION IS COMING.
BUT THE JOBS MARKET IS NOT AS
MUCH AN INDICATOR AS SOME THINK
IT IS. IT IS.
WHEN YOU START TO GET THE TYPE
OF JOB CREATION WE HAVE SEEN,
IT'S AN ALARM BELL FOR SURE.
THERE ARE MANY GETTING FACTORS.
WEEKLY JOBLESS CLAIMS HAVE GONE
UP. UP.
THE EARNINGS SEASON WAS GOOD.
YOU LOOK AT CHARTS OF O'REILLY
AND AUTOZONE, HOMEBUILDERS ARE
REBOUNDING. REBOUNDING.
CYCLICALS HAVE DONE REALLY WELL
HERE. HERE.
YOU LOOK AT SOME OF THESE
CHARTS AND THAT JUST DOES NOT
SCREAM -- FORGET A RECESSION --
IT DOES NOT SCREAM SLOWDOWN.
LISA: LISA:
DO YOU THINK I CAN CONTINUE?
THIS IS SOMETHING YOU RAISED
WITH VALUATIONS BEING A LITTLE
HIGH. HIGH.
WE'VE BEEN SAYING THERE IS A
CONFLICT WITH THE FED
POTENTIALLY CUTTING RATES AS A
RESULT OF A WEAKENING ECONOMY.
AND THEN THIS BET ON CYCLICAL
STOCKS THAT ARE HINGED TO A
RECOVERY, DO YOU FIND THAT
CONSISTENT? CONSISTENT? DAN:
DAN:
TO ADDRESS THE FIRST QUESTION
ABOUT VALUATION, I WOULD NOTE
THAT VALUATIONS ARE SO USELESS,
IN TERMS OF MARKET TIMING.
NOT THAT THEY DON'T TELL ME
SOMETHING, BUT, MY FAVORITE
ANALOGY TO TALK ABOUT IS THE
90'S BOOM. 90'S BOOM.
-- 1990'S BOOM. -- 1990'S BOOM.
IT WAS NOT UNTIL THE TRADE THAT
WAS DRIVING THE BULL MARKET AT
THE TIME, WHICH WAS OF COURSE
THE TELECOM AND THE TECH BOOM
OF THE DAY, BEFORE WE STARTED
GETTING PROFIT WARNINGS IN AND
AROUND 2000, BUT THE DOJ
STEPPED IN TO PREVENT THE
WORLD, NCI -- MCI MERGER WITH
WORLDCOM, YOU HAVE SEEN NOTHING
LIKE THAT RIGHT NOW.
BROADCOM'S ARE SUPPORTED.
BROADCOM'S ARE SUPPORTED. LISA:
LISA:
YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT AI, I'M
TALKING ABOUT SMALL CAPS.
I'M TALKING ABOUT THE IDEA OF A
CYCLICAL KIND OF RECOVERY THAT
CAN BE BAKED INTO A MARKET
THAT'S BETTING ON WEAKNESS THAT
WILL REQUIRE FED RATES TO CUT
SIGNIFICANTLY, DOES THAT SQUARE
FOR YOU? FOR YOU? DAN: DAN:
WITH RESPECT TO THE SMALL-CAP
MARKET, I WOULD ASK MOST
PEOPLE, NAME ME THREE OF THE
TOP 10 STOCKS IN THE RUSSELL
2000. 2000.
I'M NOT SURE THEY CAN.
I'M NOT SURE MOST PEOPLE COULD
NAME FIVE IN THE MID-CAP.
DO I THINK I WOULD BE BETTING
ON CYCLICAL STOCKS AS THE FED
IS REDUCING INTEREST RATES TO
CARVE OUT AN ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN?
MY WHEN ARGUMENT THERE IS THE
JOBS MARKET IS SUPER
CONSEQUENTIAL AND I'M NOT
TRYING TO DISMISS IT.
BUT YOU HAVE A HOST OF OTHER
INDICATORS THAT ARE NOT TELLING
THE SAME STORY. THE SAME STORY.
THE ISM HAS BEEN IMPROVING.
AGAINST CYCLICAL STOCKS, NOT
JUST THE PERFORMANCE OF THE
STOCK THEMSELVES, BUT THE
UNDERLYING EARNINGS AND THE
COMMENTARY OUT OF SOME OF THESE
COMPANIES REMAIN INCREDIBLY
POSITIVE. POSITIVE.
THEY ARE NOT TALKING ABOUT WE
HAVE A POCKET OF WEAKNESS HERE
AND A POCKET OF WEAKNESS THERE.
THEY ARE GENERALLY SPEAKING,
ACROSS-THE-BOARD, DOING QUITE
WELL. WELL.
THAT IS OFFERING MANY GETTING
FACTORS. FACTORS.
WHEN YOU TAKE THE TOTALITY OF
THE DATA TOGETHER TO ADDRESS
YOUR ISSUE, I CAN UNDERSTAND
WHY PEOPLE WOULD BE BETTING ON
THAT TYPE OF STOCK RIGHT NOW AS
THE FED BEGINS TO REDUCE
INTEREST RATES. INTEREST RATES.
I WOULD ADD REAL QUICK THAT
THIS IS NOT TOO DISSIMILAR TO
WHAT HAPPENED IN 2007.
THE NEWS STORY OF THE DAY WAS
THE -- CAME OUT.
THE FED MINUTES CAME OUT.
EVERYTHING LOOKS OK TO US AND
EVERYONE SAID OK, HERE WE GO,
THE FED IS COMING TO THE RESCUE
AND THEY ARE GOING TO CUT
AND THEY ARE GOING TO CUT RATES.
RATES. THAT DID NOT STOP IT FROM
THAT DID NOT STOP IT FROM
BECOMING WHAT IT EVENTUALLY
BECAME. BECAME. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: GO ON. GO ON.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
WHAT DO YOU MEAN? LISA: LISA:
IT ROLLS OFF THE TONGUE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EVERYONE I KNOW KNOWS THE
RUSSELL 2000. RUSSELL 2000.
YOU HAVE MENTIONED 2007 TWICE
IN THIS CONVERSATION.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT DOES TO
PEOPLE? PEOPLE? DAN: DAN: SURE.
SURE. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WHY DO YOU KEEP REFLECTING ON
THAT MOMENT IN TIME?
THAT MOMENT IN TIME? DAN: DAN:
BECAUSE THE JOB SLOWDOWN IS AN
ALARM BELL FOR ME.
AS YOU MENTIONED, I HAVE BEEN
POSITIVE AND FOR MUCH OF MY
CAREER, I'VE BEEN PRETTY
POSITIVE. POSITIVE.
NUMBERS USUALLY GO UP.
BUT, A JOB SLOWDOWN IS AN ALARM
BELL AND IT TRADITIONALLY IS
SOMETHING TO WHICH WE SHOULDN'T
IGNORE. IGNORE.
2007 WAS THE LAST TIME -- TO BE
CLEAR -- LET'S NOT FORGET THAT
MUCH OF 2007 WAS A NORMAL
RECESSION. RECESSION.
THE FIRST HALF OF THE YEAR, IT
WAS A NORMAL RECESSION.
IT WAS NOT UNTIL LATE THAT IT
BECAME B A BIG PROBLEM.
I DISMISSED, I THINK RIGHTLY
SO, A LOT OF THE WORRIES OVER
THE LAST 15 YEARS.
BUT A JOB SLOWDOWN IS NOT
SOMETHING TO BE IGNORED.
SOMETHING TO BE IGNORED. LISA:
LISA:
CRISES ALWAYS HAPPEN AND THE
ASSETS THAT ARE PERCEIVED TO BE
THE SAFEST, THE AAA BONDS,
THERE IS A QUESTION OVER
WHETHER DEVELOPED MARKETS AND
SOVEREIGN DEBT WILL BE AT THE
EPICENTER OF SOME OF THE
VOLATILITY WE HAVE SEEN.
WE HAVE SEEN SOME HINTS OF
WE HAVE SEEN SOME HINTS OF THAT.
THAT. DAN: DAN: LET ME PUSHBACK.
LET ME PUSHBACK. LISA: LISA:
PLEASE. PLEASE. DAN: DAN:
HOW LONG HAVE WE TALKED ABOUT A
FAILED BOND AUCTION?
HOW LONG HAVE WE TALKED ABOUT
THE U.S. THE U.S.
THAT IS UNSUSTAINABLE?
I HAVE ARTICLES AND REPORTS
THAT ARE 30, 40 YEARS OLD, THE
GREENSPAN COMMISSION IN THE
EARLY 1980'S CAME TOGETHER.
THIS HAS BEEN -- BY THE WAY --
LET ME STATE FOR THE VIEWER,
THIS IS DISGUSTING, THE LEVEL
OF DEBT WE HAVE.
AND THE LEVEL OF SPENDING.
A BUDGET DEFICIT AT 6.5% OF THE
GDP. GDP.
I'M ON BOARD WITH ALL OF THIS.
BUT, AS A MARKET PARTICIPANT, I
HAVE TO MAKE AN INVESTMENT
DECISION ON WHAT TO DO WITH ALL
OF THIS. OF THIS.
IF I WENT TO THE CEO AND SAID
YOU KNOW, THE GOVERNMENT'S DEBT
IS VERY HIGH AND WE SHOULD SELL
BROADCOM, HE WOULD THROW ME OUT
OF THE ROOM. OF THE ROOM.
AND DESERVEDLY SO.
SO, I WOULD PUSH BACK.
I WOULD ALSO ADD THAT EVERY ONE
IS FREAKING ABOUT U.K.
AND FRENCH DEBT AND DESERVEDLY
SO. SO. LOOK AT A BROADER CHART,
LOOK AT A BROADER CHART,
THREE-YEAR, FOUR YEAR, FIVE
YEAR, THE U.K. YEAR, THE U.K.
U.K. U.K. 10-YEAR IS 4.6.
10-YEAR IS 4.6.
WHERE WAS IT 10 YEARS AGO?
WHERE WAS IT 10 YEARS AGO? 4.60.
4.60.
THE ONLY R COUNTRY IN THE
REGION WHERE YIELDS HAVE BEEN
TRENDING DOWN IS ITALY.
TRENDING DOWN IS ITALY. LISA:
LISA:
I THOUGHT YOU WERE GOING TO SAY
ITALY. ITALY. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I'VE ALWAYS GOT GOOD THINGS TO
SAY ABOUT THE FATHERLAND.
GOBAD NEWS, GOOD NEWS FOR FIXED
INCOME. INCOME. LISA: LISA:
IT CAME AT THE LONG END AS WELL
AS THE SHORT END.
WE SAW A YIELD CURVE FLATTENING
ON FRIDAY, NOT STEEPENING WITH
THE PERCEPTION THAT ANY KIND OF
RATE CUTS WOULD UNLEASH A HUGE
ROUND OF MASSIVE INFLATION.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
A FINAL QUESTION.
HAVE YOU SOLD SOME OF YOUR
CREDIT EXPOSURE?
CREDIT EXPOSURE? DAN: DAN:
AS A HUTCH FRIEND -- HEDGE
FUND, I CAN TALK ABOUT WHAT WE
DO OR DON'T DO. DO OR DON'T DO.
WE ARE A SLOW MOVING SHOP.
WE ARE A SINGLE MANAGING
PLATFORM. PLATFORM.
I HAVE TO CONVINCE ONE GUY THAT
I AM RIGHT. I AM RIGHT.
I THINK THAT WE ARE ONGOING
WITH THIS RIGHT NOW.
THE AVERAGE CASUAL VIEWER AND
INVESTOR, I THINK THERE IS
POTENTIALLY A PARADIGM SHIFT
RIGHT NOW. RIGHT NOW. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: INTERESTING.
INTERESTING.
DAN, I APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
DAN GREENHAUS, A FEW MENTIONS
OF 2007, FULL OF SELF
CONFIDENCE. CONFIDENCE. LISA:
LISA:
WHEN YOU ASK ME SOMETHING AND I
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO SAY, I
WILL SAY IT IS POTENTIALLY A
PARADIGM SHIFT. PARADIGM SHIFT.
I WILL HEDGE MY BETS.
THE IDEA THAT DAN WAS TALKING
ABOUT, I THINK THIS IS
IMPORTANT. IMPORTANT.
HIS INSIGHTS ARE ALWAYS
HIS INSIGHTS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME.
WELCOME. THE IDEA OF JOB MARKET
THE IDEA OF JOB MARKET
DECELERATION AND THE CREDIT
MARKET CYCLE THAT WE HAVE NOT
SEEN IN A VERY LONG TIME, THAT
IS A PARADIGM SHIFT AFTER WHAT
WE HAVE SEEN OVER THE PAST FEW
DECADES. DECADES. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
LET'S GET YOU AN UPDATE ON
STORIES ELSEWHERE THIS MORNING
WITH YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO YAHAIRA FOR
MORE. MORE.
>> OIL PRICES ARE RISING AFTER
OPEC-PLUS SAID IT WOULD BOOST
PRODUCTION AT A PACE MORE
MODEST THAN EXPECTED.
THEY WOULD RESTART 137,000
BARRELS A DAY FROM OCTOBER.
THAT WAS MUCH SMALLER THAN THE
INCREMENTS SCHEDULED FOR THE
PREVIOUS TWO MONTHS.
PREVIOUS TWO MONTHS. THE U.S.
THE U.S.
IS PROPOSING ANNUAL APPROVALS
FOR EXPORTS OF CHIPMAKING
SUPPLIES TO SAMSUNG AND HYNIX
FACTORIES IN CHINA.
THE COMPROMISE MAY END UP
PREVENTING DISRUPTIONS TO THE
GLOBAL ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY.
THE U.S. THE U.S.
OPENS FINAL BETWEEN JANIK
CENTER AND CARLOS ALCARAZ ,
AFTER PRESIDENT TRUMP PAID A
VISIT TO OUR THRASH.
HE WAS JOINED BY THE WHITE
HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF, ATTORNEY
GENERAL PAM BONDI AND SCOTT
BESSENT. BESSENT.
ALCARAZ WENT ON TO WIN HIS
SECOND U.S. SECOND U.S.
OPEN TITLE. OPEN TITLE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
HE WAS DOMINANT YESTERDAY.
ABSOLUTELY DOMINANT.
UP NEXT, THE PUSH TO HIRE
AMERICAN. AMERICAN.
>> WE HAVE A LOT OF INDUSTRIES
THAT WE DON'T HAVE ANY MORE.
WE WILL HAVE TO TRAIN PEOPLE.
THE WAY YOU TRAIN PEOPLE IS
BRING PEOPLE IN WHO KNOW WHAT
THEY ARE DOING AND LET THEM
STAY FOR A LITTLE WHILE AND
HELP. HELP.
WE HAVE TO WORK SOMETHING OUT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
UP NEXT, WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
TOBIN MARCUS. TOBIN MARCUS.
LIVE FROM NEW YORK CITY THIS
MORNING, GOOD MORNING.
♪ ♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EQUITIES ARE POSITED BY A
QUARTER OF 1% ON THE S&P 500,
UP BY 0.4 ON THE NASDAQ.
DAN, TYPICALLY CONSTRUCTIVE ON
THE U.S. THE U.S.
ECONOMY AND AN OPTIMIST OF A
LOT OF THE PEOPLE WE SPEAK TO
ON WALL STREET. ON WALL STREET.
THAT IS A SHIFT FROM HIM JUST
MOMENTS AGO. MOMENTS AGO. LISA:
LISA:
HE TALKED ABOUT 2007 TWICE.
YOUR CONCERN IS THE DOWNSHIFT
IN THE LABOR MARKET.
IF IT'S REAL, IT'S A REAL
CONCERN TO HIM. CONCERN TO HIM.
HE SAID HE CANNOT IGNORE THAT,
THAT'S NOT A LAGGING INDICATOR,
THAT IS VERY MUCH A PRESENT
INDICATED THAT SIGNALS WEAKNESS
AHEAD. AHEAD. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: IT'S HARD TO IGNORE.
IT'S HARD TO IGNORE.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE THIS
MORNING, A BIG PUSH TO HIRE
AMERICAN. AMERICAN.
>> WE ARE GOING TO LOOK AT THAT
WHOLE SITUATION.
WE HAVE A LOT OF INDUSTRIES
THAT WE DON'T HAVE ANY MORE AND
WE ARE GOING TO HAVE TO TRAIN
PEOPLE. PEOPLE.
AND THE WAY YOU TRAIN PEOPLE IS
BRING PEOPLE IN THAT KNOW WHAT
THEY ARE DOING AND LET THEM
STAY FOR A LITTLE BIT AND HELP.
WE DO HAVE TO WORK SOMETHING
OUT WHERE WE BRING IN EXPERTS
SO THAT OUR PEOPLE CAN BE
TRAINED SO THEY CAN DO IT
THEMSELVES. THEMSELVES.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
HERE'S THE LATEST. PRESIDENT
DONALD TRUMP WARNING
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIES TO
RESPECT IMMIGRATION LAWS.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT COMING AFTER
TRUMP REACHED AN AGREEMENT.
JOINING US NOW TO DISCUSS IS
TYLER KENDALL. TYLER KENDALL.
HI, TYLER. HI, TYLER.
>> THIS IS NO DOUBT CASTING A
SHADOW OVER SOUTH KOREA'S
MULTIBILLION DOLLAR INVESTMENT
DRIVE IN THE U.S., SEEN AS
CRITICAL TO THE ONGOING TRADE
NEGOTIATIONS. NEGOTIATIONS.
HYUNDAI PLAYS A REALLY BIG ROLE
IN THAT. IN THAT.
THE COMPANY HAS PLEDGED TO
INVEST $26 BILLION IN THE U.S.
THROUGH 2028. THROUGH 2028.
NOT TO MENTION, IT'S WORTH
POINTING OUT THAT THIS IS AN
ELECTRIC VEHICLE BATTERY PLANT
AND WE KNOW THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS IDENTIFIED THOSE SECTORS
THEY SAY THEY WANT TO DE-RISK
AND THERE IS A HUGE RELIANCE ON
CHINA WHEN IT COMES TO THE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE SUPPLY CHAIN.
THIS WAS CONSIDERED TO BE THE
LARGEST SINGLE SITE ENFORCEMENT
OPERATION IN DHS HISTORY.
OFFICIALS SAY IT CAME AFTER A
MONTH-LONG INVESTIGATION.
WE KNOW IT COMES AGAINST THE
BROADER BACKDROP OF THE WHITE
HOUSE'S DEPORTATION PUSH.
WE SHOULD MENTION IT REMAINS
UNCLEAR WHAT VISAS THE WORKERS
HELD AND WHETHER OR NOT THEY
ALLOWED THEM TO BE ON THE SITE.
WHILE IT APPEARS WE ARE GOING
TOWARD A RESOLUTION, IT SENT
SOUTH KOREAN FIRMS REELING.
WE WILL HAVE TO SEE HOW THIS
IMPACTS THE RELATIONS GOING
FORWARD, PARTICULARLY WHEN IT
COMES TO TRADE TALKS.
WE ARE EXPECTING SOUTH KOREAN
OFFICIALS TO BE IN THE U.S.
THIS WEEK IN WASHINGTON, TO
CONTINUE THOSE NEGOTIATIONS.
AS YOU KNOW, SOUTH KOREA WAS
ABLE TO SECURE THE PREFERENTIAL
RATE OF 15%. RATE OF 15%.
IT'S YET TO GO INTO EFFECT ON A
CRITICAL SECTOR.
CRITICAL SECTOR. THAT IS AUTOS.
THAT IS AUTOS.
THAT'S BECAUSE WE ARE STILL
WAITING FOR BOTH SIDES TO
HAMMER OUT THOSE DETAILS ON THE
350 BILLION DOLLAR INVESTMENT
FUND THAT THE COUNTRY SAYS IS
INCLUDED IN THIS PLAN, WHICH
BRINGS US BACK TO THE
CONVERSATION WHEN IT COMES TO
SOUTH KOREA'S PUSH TO GET MONEY
INTO THE U.S. INTO THE U.S.
TO GET THESE LOWER LEVIES.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
TOBIN MARCUS JOINS US FOR MORE.
A 350 BILLION DOLLAR FUND TO
HAVE SOUTH KOREAN FIRMS EXPAND
RIGHT HERE IN THE UNITED
STATES, HOW MUCH DID WE
COMPLICATE THINGS OVER THE
WEEKEND? WEEKEND? TOBIN: TOBIN:
THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
COMPLICATIONS. COMPLICATIONS.
YOU HAVE, ON ONE HAND, BIG
INVESTMENT INCENTIVES AND THE
BIG BEAUTIFUL BILL.
ON THE OTHER HAND, YOU HAVE
TARIFFS ON INPUTS AND
IMMIGRATION RESTRICTIONS THAT
POSE SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGES FOR
FIRMS WHO WANT TO VENTURE INTO
THE U.S., WHETHER THEY BE
DOMESTIC FIRMS OR INTERNATIONAL
FIRMS. DO I THINK WE SEE SIGNS
OF LABOR AVAILABILITY BEING AN
ISSUE IN THE JOBS DATA, AMONG
OTHER THINGS. OTHER THINGS.
EVEN IN THE JAPAN DEAL THAT
THEY FINALLY EXECUTED, THE
REDUCTION IN THE AUTO TARIFFS,
THE DETAILS ABOUT THAT BIG
INVESTMENT FUND REMAINS
SOMEWHAT THIN. SOMEWHAT THIN.
SO, I THINK THERE IS A LOT IN
THE AIR ON THIS ONE.
THE AIR ON THIS ONE. LISA: LISA:
-- YOU MENTIONED JAPAN AND THE
TRADE DEAL THEY CAME UP WITH.
THE PRIME MINISTER IS STEPPING
DOWN AFTER COMPLETING THAT
PLANE. PLANE.
HOW MUCH IS THE PUSH BACK, NOT
NECESSARILY COMING FROM THE
DIFFERENT POPULATIONS OF A
NUMBER OF THESE COUNTRIES?
TOBIN: TOBIN:
IT'S A REAL CHALLENGE.
THE JAPANESE PRIME MINISTER WAS
UNDER A LOT OF PRE-EXISTING
POLITICAL PRESSURE.
SIMILARLY, THE SOUTH KOREAN
POLITICAL SITUATION HAS BEEN
UNSETTLED. UNSETTLED.
EVEN SEPARATE FROM THOSE TRADE
TALKS. TALKS.
IT IS A POLITICAL LIABILITY FOR
THE LEADERS WHO ARE EXECUTING
SOME OF THESE DEALS IN
COUNTRIES THAT HAVE SOME OF
THEIR OWN KIND OF PRIDE IN A
SENSE OF DOMESTIC, AMONG THE
DOMESTIC POPULACE.
THERE IS LESS BACKLASH IN SOME
OF THE CASES WHERE IT'S AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT TO A COUNTRY
THEY HAVE NO ABILITY TO DO
ANYTHING ABOUT. ANYTHING ABOUT.
IN SOUTH KOREA, JAPAN AND THE
EUROPEAN UNION, THERE ARE SIGNS
OF BACKLASH FROM WHAT THEY
WOULD CHARACTERIZE AS THE LEAST
BAD AVAILABLE DEAL.
BAD AVAILABLE DEAL. LISA: LISA:
DO YOU THINK THIS ICE RAID WAS
PART OF A COORDINATED EFFORT ON
THE PART OF THE ADMINISTRATION
TO PUT OUT A MULTI PROMPT
POLICY OF BOTH THE TARIFFS AS
WELL AS TRYING TO ENCOURAGE
DOMESTIC TRAINING AND DOMESTIC
HIRING? HIRING?
OR DO YOU THINK THIS INDICATES
DEPARTMENTS THAT MIGHT NOT BE
WORKING IN SYNC WITH ONE
ANOTHER? ANOTHER?
>> I THINK THERE IS A TENSION
BETWEEN THE GOALS HERE.
THE REMARKS FROM PRESIDENT
TRUMP THAT YOU PLAYED A MOMENT
AGO, HE TALKED ABOUT WE NEED TO
FIGURE OUT A WAY TO GET HIGHLY
SKILLED PEOPLE HERE.
I THINK THE FOLKS AT THE
MINISTRATION WHO ARE IN CHARGE
OF IMMIGRATION POLICY, UP TO
STEPHEN MILLER, ARE NOT HUGE
FANS OF LEGAL IMMIGRATION,
EITHER. EITHER.
THAT'S EASY TO SAY BUT DOING IT
IS ANOTHER THING.
WE SAW IN THE FIRST TRUMPET
MINISTRATION, THEY GROUND DOWN
THE PIECE IN WHICH VISAS FOR
HIGH SKILLED -- HI SCALED LEGAL
IMMIGRATION WERE ISSUED.
I THINK THAT THERE IS A SINCERE
COMMITMENT TO IMMIGRATION
POLICY FROM THE ENTIRE
ADMINISTRATION. ADMINISTRATION.
THEY ARE PURSUING THAT FOR ITS
OWN SAKE. OWN SAKE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
TOBIN MARCUS, APPRECIATE THE
REACTION TO A BIG STORY
DEVELOPING OVER THE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
THE MINISTRATION IS TELLING
COUNTRIES IF YOU WANT A
FAVORABLE TRADE DEAL WITH US,
YOU NEED TO COME UP WITH THESE
KINDS OF PLANS TO INVEST
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
RIGHT HERE INTO THE UNITED
STATES. STATES.
WE HEARD THAT FRIDAY WITH
REGARDS TO COUNTRIES LIKE
SWITZERLAND. SWITZERLAND.
YOU SEE HOW SOME COMPANIES ARE
BEING TREATED FROM COUNTRIES
LIKE SOUTH KOREA AND THAT WILL
RAISE EYEBROWS FOR PEOPLE
NEGOTIATING THESE KINDS OF
DEALS. DEALS. LISA: LISA:
IT WILL HALT THE STATEMENT OF
SOME OF THESE FACTORIES.
IN GENERAL, YOU'VE SEEN HOW
LONG IT TAKES TO GET SOME OF
THESE PLANTS INTO THE UNITED
STATES. STATES.
A REAL QUESTION AROUND WHAT
THAT LOOKS LIKE, HOW THAT GETS
DEPLOYED, THIS ONLY RAISES
THOSE QUESTIONS THAT MUCH MORE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
YOU NAILED IT. YOU NAILED IT.
WASHINGTON IS HUGE AND GETTING
EVERYONE ON THE SAME PAGE,
GETTING EVERYONE TO SPEAK TO
EACH OTHER AT THE SAME TIME
WITH THE SAME END GOAL IN MIND
IS DIFFICULT ENOUGH.
BUT WHEN THE POLICIES ARE IN
CONFLICT -- LISA:
ON ONE HAND, THERE IS A FEELING
OF TRYING TO RATCHET BACK
IMMIGRATION OF ALL KINDS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THERE IS A
GOAL OF BRINGING MANUFACTURING
TO THE UNITED STATES.
A DEARTH OF SOME OF THE TRAINED
WORKERS TO GET THAT UNDERWAY
QUICKLY. QUICKLY.
HOW DO YOU TRAIN PEOPLE?
WHERE IS THE MONEY BEHIND THAT?
WHAT KINDS OF PROGRAMS?
LOTS OF QUESTIONS.
LOTS OF QUESTIONS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
UP NEXT, WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
ERIC RESNICK AS CONSUMER DEMAND
REMAINS RESILIENT.
PLUS, WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
DANI BURGER WITH YOUR MORNING
MOVERS. MOVERS.
ECHOSTAR, THAT STOCK IS UP BY
24%. 24%.
♪ ♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EQUITY IS FIRMER, ABOUT A
QUARTER PERCENT ON THE S&P 500.
NASDAQ 100 HIGHER BY 0.4.
FIVE WEEKS OF GAINS FOR SMALL
CAPS. CAPS.
UP AGAIN THIS MORNING BY 0.2%.
IN THE BOND MARKET, YIELDS
LOWER ON THE FRONT END OF THE
CURVE FOR FOUR CONSECUTIVE
SESSIONS. SESSIONS.
2'S, 3.4966. 2'S, 3.4966. LISA:
LISA: NONFARM PAYROLL SUPPORT
NONFARM PAYROLL SUPPORT
DISAPPOINTED FOR THE LAST
COUPLE OF MONTHS.
DAN GREEN HAS NAILED IT.
IS THIS THE BEGINNING OF
SOMETHING ELSE OR SIMPLY A HEAD
FAKE THAT WILL UNLEASH FURTHER
STRENGTH LATER ON?
WE DON'T KNOW. WE DON'T KNOW.
DOWNWARD REVISIONS WE ARE
LIKELY TO GET THIS WEEK.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THE START OF SOMETHING MUCH
WORSE, END OF CYCLE RATE
ADJUSTMENTS WHICH WOULD IMPLY
MORE THAN 100 BASIS POINTS OF
RATE CUTS. RATE CUTS.
THE MARKET WANTS ALL OF THAT
BUT WITHOUT THE DOWNTURN IN THE
ECONOMY. ECONOMY.
THAT IS NOT HOW IT WORKS.
THAT IS NOT HOW IT WORKS. LISA:
LISA:
IT SEEMED LIKE ON FRIDAY SOME
PEOPLE WERE CHEERED BY THE IDEA
THAT FRONT END YIELDS WENT
DOWN, BUT SO, TOO, DID LONG
END YIELDS. END YIELDS.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
I WAS COMFORTED BY THAT, TO SEE
10'S DOWN TO THOSE LEVELS THIS
MORNING, 30-YEAR YIELDS
RESPONDING IN THE RIGHT WAY TO
WEAKER THAN EXPECTED ECONOMIC
DATA ON FRIDAY. DATA ON FRIDAY.
THAT IS THE BOND MARKET AS WE
COUNT YOU DONE TO THE OPENING
BELL. BELL.
LET'S CROSS OVER TO DANI WITH
MORE. MORE. DANI: DANI:
STARLINK WILL BE BUYING A
MOBILE SPECTRUM FROM ECHOSTAR
IN A DEAL WORTH $17 BILLION.
ECHOSTAR UP 22.5%.
THE GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN TRYING
TO PRESSURE EQUAL START TO SELL
OFF SOME OF THE SPECTRUM ASSETS
AFTER FILING FOR BANKRUPTCY.
SPACEX CAN PROVIDE MORE DIRECT
TO SERVICES. TO SERVICES.
T-MOBILE IS FALLING ON THE BACK
OF THIS NEWS. OF THIS NEWS.
MAYBE STARLINK AND SPACEX DON'T
NEED THEM AS MUCH.
ALSO A REPORT A MONTH AGO THAT
T-MOBILE WAS ALSO INTERESTED IN
THOSE ASSETS FROM ECHOSTAR.
AT&T PREVIOUSLY BOUGHT SOME, SO
THEY WERE CONSIDERED A
CONTENDER. CONTENDER.
FINALLY, WE LEARN FROM UNITED
HEALTH, THEY'LL BE GIVING THEIR
ANNUAL INVESTOR DAY MEETING
THIS WEEK. THIS WEEK.
THEY RECENTLY SAID THEY WOULD
REAFFIRM THEIR 2025 EPS OUTLOOK
IN THOSE MEETINGS.
THAT IS A $16 EPS AT THE BOTTOM
OF THE RANGE. OF THE RANGE.
WHEN THEY ISSUED THAT THEIR
EARNINGS, IT WAS SEEN AS A
DISAPPOINTMENT. DISAPPOINTMENT.
SHARES ARE UP 1% OFF OF THAT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE THAT.
THE TREASURY SECRETARY SCOTT
BESSENT MORNING OF MASSIVE
REFUNDS IF THE SUPREME COURT
STRIKES DOWN PRESIDENT TRUMP
STEVE RIPS. STEVE RIPS.
THE ADMINISTRATION ASKING FOR
AN EXPEDITED RULING AFTER THE
APPEALS COURT SAID THE LEVEES
ARE ILLEGAL. ARE ILLEGAL. LISA:
LISA:
THE IRONY, THEY ARE CONSIDERED
A POSITIVE THING ON THE
BACKDROP OF THE FISCAL SHAPE OF
THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE IT
COULD BRING IN TWO POINT $4
TRILLION OVER 10 YEARS
BEGINNING IN 2026.
HOW MUCH OF THAT IS REDUCED IF
IEEPA IS STRIPPED AWAY, REDUCED
TO ALMOST $700 BILLION?
A REAL QUESTION OF HOW THE U.S.
RAISES THE MONEY, AND WHERE IS
IT COMING FROM? IT COMING FROM?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
MORNING OF MASSIVE REFUNDS.
SOME ARE HOPING FOR THAT.
SOME OF THE COMPANY THAT PAID
THOSE TARIFFS WANT THAT MONEY
BACK. BACK. LISA: LISA:
THIS IS STIMULATIVE.
HAVE PEOPLE OTHERWISE BEEN
GETTING TAXED? GETTING TAXED?
THIS JUST ADDS TO THE QUESTION,
WE HAVE NO CLUE HOW POLICIES
THAT ARE RADICALLY DIFFERENT
FROM WHAT WE'VE SEEN OVER THE
PAST 60 YEARS, HOW IT WILL
TRICKLE OUT INTO AN ECONOMY
THAT IS IN FLUX AS WELL.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
CONTRIBUTES TO UNCERTAINTY AND
MAKES IT HARDER FOR THE C-SUITE
TO KNOW WHAT TO DO NEXT.
WITH THINGS LIKE PRICING
STRATEGY, IF YOU WERE THINKING
ABOUT PASSING ON THE COST TO
THE END CONSUMER, RAISE PRICES,
YOU WILL HAVE TO RETHINK,
BECAUSE MAY THE TARIFFS WILL
NOT BE ON. NOT BE ON. LISA:
LISA:
YOU DON'T LOVE CROCS, BUT I
HAVE TO SAY, I HAVE NO PROBLEM
WITH IT, IF YOU ARE IN A BEACH
HOUSE. HOUSE.
MAYBE HAVE LESS PRICING POWER
THERE, MORE PRICING POWER ON
THE LATEST SNEAKER.
THE LATEST SNEAKER. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I HAVE NO PROBLEM WITH THE
PRICE OF CROCS. PRICE OF CROCS.
LISA: LISA:
I'M GOING TO GET YOU A PAIR,
YOU ARE GOING TO LOVE THEM.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WHAT ARE THOSE SANDALS CALLED?
NO CHANCE. NO CHANCE. LISA:
LISA: YOU HAVE LOST YOUR INNER
YOU HAVE LOST YOUR INNER HIPPEE.
HIPPEE. JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAYING HE IS
READY TO MOVE FORWARD IN THE
SECOND PHASE OF SANCTIONS
AGAINST RUSSIA AFTER A MASSIVE
ATTACK ON GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
IN KYIV. IN KYIV.
NEW YORK MAYORAL CANDIDATES ARE
ON MAMDANI SAYS THE CITY SHOULD
BRACE ITSELF FOR THE NATIONAL
GUARD AS PRESIDENT TRUMP TRIES
TO ROUND UP CRIME AND ARREST
UNDOCUMENTED IMMIGRANTS IN
SANCTUARY CITIES.
SANCTUARY CITIES. LISA: LISA:
IT IS NOTABLE TO ME HOW MUCH
FOCUS THERE HAS BEEN ON THIS,
HOW REPRESENTATIVE IT HAS BEEN
ON A SHIFT WE ARE SEEING AROUND
THE WORLD, THE GRAPPLING OF HOW
YOU DEAL WITH THE FACT THAT
THERE ARE A LOT OF PEOPLE WITH
AFFORDABILITY ISSUES, HOUSING,
AND LACK OF AGREEMENT ON HOW TO
ADDRESS THEM. ADDRESS THEM.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
AOC IN TOWN, A RALLY IN
BROOKLYN ALONGSIDE SENATOR
SANDERS. SANDERS.
THIS IS WHAT RON DESANTIS SAID
OVER THE WEEKEND.
THE PALM BEACH REALTOR OF THE
YEAR WITH A PICTURE OF THOSE
THREE. THREE.
THIS WILL PUSH PEOPLE TO MOVE
FROM NEW YORK TO FLORIDA.
FROM NEW YORK TO FLORIDA. LISA:
LISA:
REAL QUESTIONS AROUND CRIME AND
TAXES. TAXES.
IT WILL REMAIN IN FOCUS AS WE
LOOK FORWARD AND TRY TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE FUTURE OF
THE CITY LOOKS LIKE.
THE CITY LOOKS LIKE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE LATEST ON NEW YORK
POLITICS. POLITICS.
THE ECONOMY ADDING 25,000
LEISURE AND HOSPITALITY JOBS
AMID A WEEK AUGUST PAYROLLS
REPORT. REPORT.
ERIC RESNICK OF KSL CAPITAL
PARTNERS WRITING THE FOLLOWING.
CONSUMERS ARE STILL
PRIORITIZING EXPERIENCES OVER
GOODS, EVEN AS THEY TRIM
BUDGETS, REINFORCING LONG
TAILWINDS FOR THE SECTOR.
THANKS FOR DROPPING BY.
WOULD LOVE AN UPDATE ABOUT HOW
THINGS ARE FOR YOU.
WE HAD A GUEST TALK ABOUT THE
UPPER INCOME CONSUMER MAY BE
STARTING TO CRACK ON THE EDGES.
DO YOU SEE ANY OF THAT AT ALL?
ERIC: ERIC:
I WOULDN'T CALL IT CRACKS AT
ALL. ALL.
WE SEE THE UPPER END CONSUMER
BEING MUCH STRONGER THAN THE
LOWER END CONSUMER.
WE HAVE BEEN INVESTING IN THE
TRAVEL AND LEISURE SPACE FOR 30
YEARS NOW. YEARS NOW.
AN OPERATOR INVESTING IN THE
U.S., GLOBALLY, WE CONTINUALLY
SEE A PREDICTION THAT THERE
WILL BE A REVERSAL OF WHAT HAS
BEEN A SECULAR TREND FOR SIX
DECADES IN FAVOR OF EXPERIENCES
OVER MATERIAL GOODS, TRAVEL
BEING THE BENEFICIARY OF THAT.
WE DON'T SEE THAT SHIFTING.
LISA: LISA:
THEY WILL ALWAYS BE DOING IT
FOR THE GRAM. FOR THE GRAM.
ON A RELATIVE BASIS, WHETHER
YOU HAVE SEEN A DECELERATION IN
WHAT THE UPPER INCOME TIERS OF
TRAVELERS ARE WILLING TO
TRAVELERS ARE WILLING TO ACCEPT.
ACCEPT.
STILL WILLING TO PAY THAT EXTRA
FOR THAT BETTER ROOM, BETTER
EXPERIENCE ALL AROUND, OR IS
THERE PUSHBACK THAT YOU ARE
STARTING TO SEE?
STARTING TO SEE? ERIC: ERIC:
THERE IS A LITTLE BIT OF
FATIGUE, PRICING FATIGUE.
COMING OUT OF COVID, PEOPLE
WERE WILLING TO PAY ANY PRICE
TO GET THAT ROOM, THAT TRIP,
BUT NOW WE ARE IN A MORE
NORMALIZED ENVIRONMENT.
THE RATE OF GROWTH HAS SHIFTED
DOWN. DOWN.
COMING OUT OF COVID, DOUBLE
DIGIT GROWTH EVERY YEAR IN
TERMS OF PRICE AND OVERALL
REVENUE. REVENUE.
NOW IT IS MID TO HIGH SINGLE
DIGITS FOR US, WHICH IS BETTER
THAN THE INDUSTRY OVERALL, BUT
THE INDUSTRY IS HEALTHY OVERALL
AT THE HIGHER END.
ON THE LOWER END, IT'S A LITTLE
TRICKIER. TRICKIER. LISA: LISA:
THERE IS THIS DISPERSION
BETWEEN THE UPPER INCOME AND
THE LOWER. THE LOWER.
THERE IS STILL A DESIRE TO
TRAVEL BUT STILL NOT AS
PROFLIGATE WITH THE DOLLARS.
ERIC: ERIC:
THE THE
IDEA HAS ALWAYS BEEN THERE.
YOU HAVE SEEN TRENDS IN THE
LAST THREE YEARS AS INTEREST
RATES HAVE KICKED UP AS A
RESULT OF INFLATION.
THE HIGHER AND IS CONTINUING TO
SPEND, JUST AT LOWER GROWTH
RATE BUT MORE NORMALIZED.
RIGHT NOW THINGS ARE MID TO
HIGH SINGLE DIGITS AS WE LOOK
AT THE NEXT 12 MONTHS.
THAT IS A GOOD, HEALTHY TREND.
THE REPORT ON JOBS OR
HOSPITALITY, 28,000 JOBS LAST
QUARTER, THAT IS SURPRISING TO
MANY. MANY.
IT IS NOT SURPRISING TO US.
THE RESILIENCY OF TRAVEL IS
SOMETHING THAT NEVER SURPRISES
US BUT SEEMS TO SURPRISE THE
MEDIA. MEDIA.
PRESENT COMPANY EXCLUDED.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EVERY TIME WE SEE A MOVE ON
EURO-DOLLAR, WE JOKE PEOPLE
WILL STOP GOING TO EUROPE.
CAN YOU GIVE US SOME CLARITY ON
THAT? THAT?
HOW MUCH DO THINGS MOVE BASED
ON A 10% MOVE ON THE U.S.
DOLLAR, BASED ON EXPOSURE YOU
HAVE TO TRAVEL PROPERTIES
AROUND THE WORLD?
AROUND THE WORLD? ERIC: ERIC:
10% MOVES, NOT THAT MUCH.
WE HAVE SEEN THAT IN THE POUND
OVER TIME, THE EURO.
WHAT MOVES PEOPLE, THE JAPANESE
YEN BEING 30% WEAKER.
THAT DEFINITELY IMPACTS TRENDS
FROM JAPAN INTO HAWAII IN
PARTICULAR. PARTICULAR.
THAT IS THE MARKET THAT WE SEE
BEING MOST IMPACTFUL FOR US IN
THE LEISURE BUSINESS.
DO PEOPLE MOVE BETWEEN 10 AND
30? 30?
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN KNOW I THINK
THEY DO. THEY DO.
I DON'T THINK IT IS AROUND 10.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
DOES THE POLITICAL TENSION EVER
SHOW UP? SHOW UP?
WE HAVE TALKED A LOT ABOUT HOW
CANADIANS WERE MAYBE STOPPING
COMING SOUTH OF THE BORDER.
HAVE YOU WITNESSED THAT, ARE
THE ACCENTS CHANGING AROUND THE
PROPERTIES? PROPERTIES? ERIC:
ERIC: WE DO SEE IT.
WE DO SEE IT.
CANADIAN TRAVEL TO HAWAII, PALM
SPRINGS IS DOWN.
IT IS A LITTLE BIT LIKE THE
CURRENCY. CURRENCY.
THERE IS A THRESHOLD.
MOST OF THE GEOPOLITICAL NEWS
IS LINE NOISE WHEN IT COMES TO
TRAVEL PATTERNS, BUT THERE IS A
THRESHOLD THAT YOU HIT.
SOME OF THE CANADIAN, U.S.
DESTINATIONS GOT ABOVE THAT
LEVEL WHERE IT TO IMPACT TRAVEL
PATTERNS. PATTERNS.
THIS IS A STAT THAT I'M NOT
PROUD OF, BUT THE U.S.
IS THE ONE COUNTRY OUT OF 184
TRACKED BY THE TRAVEL AND
TOURISM COUNCIL THAT IS
NEGATIVE ON INTERNATIONAL
ARRIVALS THIS YEAR.
ARRIVALS THIS YEAR. LISA: LISA:
WHICH RAISES A QUESTION GOING
FORWARD. FORWARD.
AS YOU MAKE ACQUISITIONS,
INVESTMENTS, HOW MUCH ARE YOU
SEEING OPPORTUNITIES CONTINUING
IN THE UNITED STATES GIVEN SOME
OF THESE CONCERNS?
ARE YOU GETTING MORE ACTIVE OR
SITTING ON YOUR HANDS, WAITING
FOR THINGS TO SHAKE OUT?
FOR THINGS TO SHAKE OUT? ERIC:
ERIC:
WE SEE THERE BEING A LARGE
AMOUNT OF OPPORTUNITIES AROUND
THE WORLD TO INVEST IN TRAVEL,
IT IS NOT JUST A U.S.
THING OR GLOBAL THING.
WE ARE STILL SEEING OVERALL
TRANSACTION VOLUME DOWN 30 TO
50%. 50%.
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT THIS
BEFORE, A YEAR AGO.
WE HAVE SEEN THE EARLY SIGNS OF
-- WE HAVE LOWER INTEREST
RATES, INCREASE NUMBER OF
FIRESIDE CHATS, EARLY-STAGE
CONVERSATION BETWEEN BUYERS AND
SELLERS ABOUT POTENTIAL
TRANSACTIONS. TRANSACTIONS.
THOSE EARLY SIGNS ARE HERE
COMING OUT OF THE SUMMER.
WE HAVE SEEN THAT KICK UP IN
THE PREPARATION OF THE LAST
WEEK POST LABOR DAY.
WE EXPECT ACTIVITY ON THE
TRANSACTION SIDE WILL GET MUCH
MORE ACTIVE. MORE ACTIVE.
WE HAVE BEEN ACTIVE BUT MORE
IDIOSYNCRATIC DEAL FLOW.
THAT TRANSACTION I MENTIONED,
$2 BILLION WORTH OF HOTELS FROM
HYATT HOTELS IN MEXICO AND THE
CARIBBEAN. CARIBBEAN.
WE HAVE BEEN FAIRLY ACTIVE BUT
WE SEE MORE ACTIVITY IN THE
FORWARD FACING ERA.
FORWARD FACING ERA. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I APPRECIATE THE UPDATE.
ERIC RESNICK OF KSL CAPITAL
PARTNERS. PARTNERS.
LET'S GET AN UPDATE ON STORIES
WORLDWIDE. WORLDWIDE.
HERE'S YAHAIRA. HERE'S YAHAIRA.
YAHAIRA: YAHAIRA:
FRANCE'S GOVERNMENT COULD
COLLAPSE TODAY WITH B AYROU
EXPECTED TO LOSE CONFIDENCE
FROM HIS GOVERNMENT.
IF THE GOVERNMENT COLLAPSES,
PRESIDENT EMMANUEL MACRON COULD
NAME A NEW PRIME MINISTER OR
CALL FRESH ELECTIONS.
MEANWHILE, IT IS M&A MONDAY.
PNC IS BUYING FIRSTBANK IN A
DEAL VALUED AT MORE THAN $4
BILLION. BILLION.
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL SAYS
THE MOVE WOULD INCREASE PNC'S
ASSETS TO JUST UNDER $60
BILLION, PUTTING THE BANK MORE
IN LINE WITH THE SIZE OF ITS
RIVALS. RIVALS.
PNC IS SET TO TAKE OVER NEARLY
100 FIRSTBANK BRANCHES IN
COLORADO AND ARIZONA.
IT WAS A ROUGH START TO THE NFL
SEASON FOR NEW YORK FANS.
AARON RODGERS LED HIS TEAM TO A
VICTORY OVER THE NEW YORK JETS.
MEANWHILE, THE NEW YORK GIANTS
LOST TO THE WASHINGTON
COMMANDERS. COMMANDERS.
THERE WAS A REMARKABLE COME
FROM BEHIND VICTORY FROM THE
BILLS WHO DEFEATED THE
BALTIMORE RAVENS 41-40.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
THE TREASURY SECRETARY PUSHING
BACK. BACK.
>> WE ARE GOING TO PUSH THROUGH
WITH THE ECONOMIC POLICIES THAT
ARE GOING TO SET THE ECONOMY
RIGHT, I BELIEVE, BY THE FOURTH
QUARTER, WHERE YOU WILL SEE A
SUBSTANTIAL ACCELERATION.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
CATCHING UP WITH BRADLEY ROGOFF
FROM BARCLAYS. FROM BARCLAYS.
GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV.
YOU ARE WATCHING BLOOMBERG TV. ♪
♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EQUITIES DOING OK, POSITED BY
ZERO POINT 2% ON THE S&P 500.
UP ONE THIRD OF A PRESENT ON
THE NASDAQ AND RUSSELL.
RUSSELL 2000 UP BY 0.24%.
UNDER SURVEILLANCE, THE
TREASURY SECRETARY PUSHING
TREASURY SECRETARY PUSHING BACK.
BACK.
>> WE ARE GOING TO PUSH THROUGH
WITH THE ECONOMIC POLICIES THAT
ARE GOING TO SET THE ECONOMY
RIGHT, I BELIEVE, BY THE FOURTH
QUARTER, WHERE YOU WILL SEE A
SUBSTANTIAL ACCELERATION.
WE ARE AT NEW HIGHS IN AUGUST.
WE WILL NOT DO ECONOMIC POLICY
OFF OF ONE NUMBER.
WE BELIEVE GOOD POLICIES ARE IN
PLACE. PLACE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
TREASURY SECRETARY SCOTT
BESSENT DEFENDING THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION'S ECONOMIC
AGENDA FOLLOWING FRIDAY'S WEEK
PAYROLLS DATA. PAYROLLS DATA.
BRADLEY ROGOFF SAYING THAT
LABOR MARKET DATA ARE FLASHING
AMBER. AMBER.
CORPORATE ACTIVITY APPEARS FUN
BUT TARIFFS SHOULD CREATE
HEADWINDS IN FOUR Q.
GOOD MORNING. GOOD MORNING.
LET'S START WITH A PAYROLLS
REPORT. REPORT. NOT SO GREAT.
NOT SO GREAT.
HOW CONCERNED ARE YOU AND THE
TEAM? TEAM? BRADLEY: BRADLEY:
CONCERNED BUT AMBER.
CONCERNED BUT AMBER. NOT READ.
NOT READ. JUST TO BE CLEAR.
JUST TO BE CLEAR.
THE MARKET SEEMS TO BE IN ONE
OF THESE, IT IS BAD NEWS, GOOD
NEWS, AND THE MARKET IS
STRUGGLING WITH THAT.
THE REASON IT IS AMBER, THERE
HAVE BEEN A LOT OF CHANGES THIS
YEAR. YEAR.
ONE IS IMMIGRATION POLICY.
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT A
NORMALIZED PAYROLLS NUMBER THAT
WOULD BE FLASHING, THAT WOULD
BE AROUND 75,000, THE ESTIMATE,
NOT A SIX-FIGURE NUMBER WHICH
IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN USED TO FOR
A WHILE NOW IN TERMS OF WHERE
PAYROLLS HAVE BEEN.
PAYROLLS HAVE BEEN. LISA: LISA:
GIVEN ALL THE POLICY CHANGES,
REVISIONS TO THE DATA, HOW MUCH
CLARITY DO WE HAVE OR ARE WE
JUST FITTING THE DATA TO THE
NARRATIVES TO UNDERSTAND MY WE
ARE GETTING NUMBERS LOWER THAN
WHAT THEY WERE THREE MONTHS
WHAT THEY WERE THREE MONTHS AGO?
AGO? BRADLEY: BRADLEY:
THERE ARE DIFFERENT SURVEYS TO
A BUNCH OF DIFFERENT THINGS AND
THEY WERE ALL POINTING TOWARD
THOSE REVISIONS.
THERE IS NOT PERFECT CLARITY,
BUT WE HAD A CLUE WE WERE
HEADING IN THAT DIRECTION.
CONCERNING BUT NOT FULLY
ALARMING. ALARMING.
CORPORATE EARNINGS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT HAVE BEEN A BIT
BETTER. BETTER.
THAT HELPS US A LITTLE BIT,
THAT HELPS US A LITTLE BIT, TOO.
TOO. LISA: LISA:
BARCLAYS SHIFTED ITS CALL AFTER
NONFARM PAYROLLS UP TO THREE
RATE CUTS THIS YEAR.
WE SAW A SIMILAR MOVE FROM BANK
OF AMERICA, AFTER THINKING
THERE WOULD BE NO CUTS.
WAS IT THE PAYROLL SUPPORT,
SOMETHING ELSE? SOMETHING ELSE?
DO YOU BELIEVE THE ECONOMIC
CYCLE IS SLOWING DOWN?
DO YOU THINK IT IS POLITICALLY
MOTIVATED, SOMETHING ELSE
BEHIND IT AT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE? RESERVE? BRADLEY:
BRADLEY:
THIS FIT HAS NOT PROVEN TO BE
PARTICULARLY POLITICALLY
MOTIVATED. MOTIVATED.
THE NUMBERS ARE WEAKER.
THE REVISIONS ARE A HUGE ONE,
THEY HAVE MADE A BIG
THEY HAVE MADE A BIG DIFFERENCE.
DIFFERENCE.
YOU THOUGHT YOU HAD ONE SOURCE
OF DATA, PRETTY STRONG, BUT IT
LOOKS OK AT BEST. YOU HAVE TO
REACT TO THAT. REACT TO THAT.
THE INFLATION DATA, WE WILL GET
MORE THIS WEEK. MORE THIS WEEK.
IT HASN'T BEEN ENOUGH TO
PREVENT THOSE TYPES OF MOVES
YET EVEN THOUGH IT'S BEEN A
LITTLE BIT HIGHER THAN THE FED
WOULD LIKE. WOULD LIKE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
DOES HOW YOU VIEW THIS FED TO
CHANGE ONCE YOU GET PAST MAY?
DO YOU THINK ABOUT MONETARY
POLICY IN A DIFFERENT WAY?
BRADLEY: BRADLEY:
I DON'T THINK IT'S A DIFFERENT
INSTITUTION BUT YOU HAVE
DIFFERENT PEOPLE, YOU HAVE TO
THINK ABOUT IT DIFFERENTLY.
THEY HAVE DIFFERENT VIEWS.
AS WE KNOW, SOME ARE MORE
DOVISH, MORE HAWKISH, BUT THEY
ARE WILLING TO CHANGE BASED ON
DATA POINTS. DATA POINTS.
PEOPLE REACT TO DATA POINTS IN
A DIFFERENT WAY.
FED INDEPENDENCE IS SOMETHING
THAT WE ARE ALWAYS THINKING
ABOUT. ABOUT.
I WORRY A BIT LESS ABOUT THAT
AND MORE ABOUT YOU HAVE
DIFFERENT PERSONALITIES.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
JUST LAST WEEK COMING THE
ARGUMENT THAT MAYBE PEOPLE ARE
UNDERESTIMATING JUST HOW HARD
THE NEXT FEDERAL RESERVE ARE
WILLING TO RUN THINGS.
WHY WOULD THEY STOP AT 3% ON
FED FUNDS RATES?
FED FUNDS RATES? BRADLEY:
BRADLEY:
WE JUST TALKED ABOUT INFLATION.
WE HAVE SEEN THE WORST PARTS OF
HOW THE FED REACTS IS WHEN THEY
CANNOT CONTROL INFLATION, WHEN
YOU THINK HISTORICALLY.
WE KNOW THAT IS SOMETHING THAT
JEROME POWELL THINKS A LOT
ABOUT. ABOUT.
COULD SOMEBODY THINK LESS ABOUT
THAT? THAT? SURE. SURE.
BUT THERE IS A DUAL MANDATE.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
CHAIRMAN POWELL HAS BEEN ABOUT
2% FOR YEARS AND YEARS AND IS
FORECASTING MORE OF THE SAME.
BRADLEY: BRADLEY:
THAT WAS ONE OF THE OTHER
THINGS THAT CAME OUT THAT WAS
INTERESTING. INTERESTING.
THEY HAVE TALKED ABOUT FLEXIBLE
AVERAGE INFLATION TARGETING,
WHICH GIVES YOU THE ABILITY TO
RUN ABOVE 2%. RUN ABOVE 2%.
WE ARE NOT TO AT 4% TODAY.
THEY ARE KIND OF MOVING AWAY
FROM THAT, AND THAT WOULD MAKE
IT HARDER, TO YOUR POINT.
IT HARDER, TO YOUR POINT. LISA:
LISA:
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE THAT
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS AND
MARKETS ARE SOMEWHAT UNDER
CONTROLLED? CONTROLLED?
THEY DON'T FEEL LIKE THERE IS
THIS RUNAWAY TRAJECTORY THAT
REPRESENTS SOME OF THE FEARS WE
ARE HEARING FROM OTHER PEOPLE,
AT THE SAME TIME, THEY EXPECT
THE FED TO UNDERWRITE THE RISK
RALLY. RALLY. BRADLEY: BRADLEY:
IT DOESN'T FEEL LIKE
EXPECTATIONS ARE OUT OF CONTROL
BUT IF YOU ARE GOING TO TARGET
SOMETHING LIKE 2%, WE ARE
DEFINITELY NOT THERE EITHER.
THE CONCERN IS NOT THAT THEY
ARE OUT OF CONTROL TODAY, BUT
IF YOU HAVE TOO STIMULATIVE
POLICY, DO THEY GET OUT OF
CONTROL? CONTROL? LISA: LISA:
DOESN'T MAKE SENSE THAT CREDIT
SPREADS ARE TIGHT GIVEN THE
FACT THAT THE FUNDAMENTAL DATA
IS SHOWING A LABOR MARKET THAT
IS NOT SO GREAT?
IS NOT SO GREAT? BRADLEY:
BRADLEY:
I THINK THERE IS A QUESTION IF
WE WILL HAVE A FULL TURN IN THE
ECONOMIC CYCLE. ECONOMIC CYCLE.
THAT STILL REMAINS AN OPEN
QUESTION TO US. QUESTION TO US.
IF YOU ARE CUTTING, YOU ARE
TRYING TO PREVENT THAT -- YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT HAVING YOUR
CAKE AND EATING IT, TOO.
TO ANSWER YOUR QUESTION MORE
ACUTELY, DOES IT AFFECT WHERE
CREDIT SPREADS ARE, THEY ARE
PROBABLY TIGHTER THAN THEY
SHOULD BE. SHOULD BE.
BUT WHEN WE THINK ABOUT HOW
MUCH WATER THEY SHOULD GO, IT
IS MODEST. YOU ARE IN LIKE THE
BOTTOM DECILE OF CREDIT SPREADS
WHEN YOU THINK ABOUT IT
HISTORICALLY. HISTORICALLY.
SHOULD YOU BE IN THE BOTTOM
QUARTILE WHEN EARNINGS HAVE
HELD UP FINE SO FAR, LEVERAGE
NUMBERS ARE UNDER CONTROL?
I GET THAT YOU SHOULD BE BELOW
AVERAGE CREDIT SPREADS, BUT IT
FEELS TOO TIGHT.
I AGREE WITH THAT POINT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
HOW MANY TIMES HAVE WE SPOKEN
TO PEOPLE THAT WERE EXCITED
ABOUT ALL IN YIELDS.
THAT IS WHY THERE IS A SMALL OF
MONEY PILING IN.
MONEY PILING IN. LISA: LISA:
THEY SAY THOSE COMPANIES LOOK
BETTER THAN THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT, SO WHY SHOULD THERE
BE A HUGE DEAL GAP?
I JUST WONDER IF EVERYONE IS AS
CONFUSED AS I AM PUTTING THESE
STORIES TOGETHER, MAKE SENSE OF
THE MARKETS. THE MARKETS.
YOU CAN MAKE AN ARGUMENT THAT
THIS IS ACTUALLY PRICING IN A
PERFECT SOFT LANDING.
YOU CAN MAKE AN ARGUMENT THAT
THIS IS PRICING IN A MORE
POLITICAL FED THAT CAN GET THE
BACK END OF THE YIELD CURVE
UNDER CONTROL. UNDER CONTROL.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE ARE AT A
TIPPING POINT THAT HAS NOT
TIPPED FOR THREE MONTHS AND IT
IS FRUSTRATING."
IS FRUSTRATING." JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
THIS DATA IS SPEAKING TO A
CYCLICAL TURN DOWN.
SOMETHING HAS TO GIVE GOING
INTO YEAR-END. INTO YEAR-END.
LISA: LISA:
DOES A FED THAT IS MORE
ACCOMMODATIVE CHANGE THAT
TRAJECTORY, OR IS IT TOO LATE?
THAT IS SOMETHING ELSE A PEOPLE
DON'T HAVE A GOOD SENSE OF.
THAT IS WHY THE REVISIONS THIS
WEEK WILL BE INTERESTING.
I WILL STOP RANTING BUT IT
FEELS LIKE A VERY CONFUSING
MOMENT. MOMENT. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
IT FEELS VERY ON BRAND.
IT FEELS VERY ON BRAND. LISA:
LISA:
I AM JUST A CONSTANT, CONTINUAL
RANT? RANT? JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
STEVE ENGLANDER WILL JOIN US.
HE IS LOOKING FOR A 50 BASIS
POINT RATE CUT AT NEXT WEEK'S
MEETING. MEETING.
HE WILL JOIN US IN ABOUT 60
MINUTES. MINUTES.
BRAD, THANKS FOR DROPPING BY.
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH MIKE
CONTOPOULOS, CHRIS MARINAC,
KATHY BOSTJANCIC OF NATIONWIDE,
AND STEVE WILL JOIN US AT
AROUND 8:45. AROUND 8:45.
THE THIRD HOUR OF BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE IS NEXT.
♪ ♪
>> THIS IS BAD NEWS IS GOOD
NEWS FOR THE STOCK MARKET
BECAUSE THE FED WILL RISE TO
THE RESCUE AND CUT RATES.
>> WE THINK CORPORATE
PROFITABILITY WILL REMAIN
INTACT. INTACT.
>> THE STOCK MARKET IS
WHISTLING PAST THE GRAVEYARD A
LITTLE BIT. LITTLE BIT.
>> LOOK FOR THOSE COMPANIES
THAT CONTINUED TO HAVE STRENGTH
IN THE BALANCE SHEETS.
>> THIS IS BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE WITH JONATHAN
FERRO, LISA, AND ANNMARIE
HORDERN. HORDERN. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: GOOD MORNING.
GOOD MORNING.
THE THIRD HOUR OF BLOOMBERG
SURVEILLANCE STARTS RIGHT NOW
WITH EQUITIES POSITIVE BY 0.2%.
90 MINUTES AWAY FROM THE
OPENING BELL. OPENING BELL.
THE POSITIVE RUN CONTINUES FOR
SMALL CAPS. SMALL CAPS.
THE RUSSELL UP BY 0.2.
IN THE BOND MARKET, COMFORT
FROM FALLING BOND YIELDS.
DOWN ANOTHER TWO BASIS POINTS.
3.4925. 3.4925.
SETTING THE STAGE FOR PRICE
ACTION LATER THIS WEEK.
PP AND CPI WEDNESDAY AND
THURSDAY. THURSDAY. LISA: LISA:
DOES THE IDEA OF INFLATION
BECOMING MORE COMPLACENT OR
LESS AGGRESSIVE GIVE THE FED
THE GREEN LIGHT TO CUT RATES
MORE AGGRESSIVELY?
NOT ONLY NEXT WEEK BUT THROUGH
THE CYCLE. THE CYCLE.
ARE WE GOING TO SEE THE
RAMIFICATIONS FROM TARIFFS
PASSED THROUGH TO CONSUMER
PRICES OR NOT? PRICES OR NOT?
THAT WILL BE THE DEBATE ON
THURSDAY. THURSDAY. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
SHALL WE TALK ABOUT THE FIGHT
HAPPENING IN WASHINGTON, D.C.?
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
I MENTIONED THE STORY EARLIER
THIS MORNING. THIS MORNING.
IT IS WORTH GOING OVER AGAIN BY
POLITICO. POLITICO.
A PRIVATE DINNER ATTENDED BY
DOZENS OF OFFICIALS ALMOST
TURNED INTO A FIGHT.
THEY SAID TREASURY SECRETARY
SCOTT BESSENT AT ONE POINT
THREATENED TO PUNCH HOUSING
OFFICIAL BILL PULTE IN THE
OFFICIAL BILL PULTE IN THE FACE.
FACE. LISA: LISA:
WE TALKED ABOUT WHAT THIS COULD
BE ABOUT. BE ABOUT.
WE ARE GETTING INTO THE REALM
OF SPECULATION, BUT WHY WOULD
SCOTT BESSENT HAVE AN
DISAGREEMENT WITH BILL PULTE?
HE'S BEEN TRYING TO ARGUE FOR
THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE AT THE SAME TIME THAT
BILL PULTE IS GOING AFTER
MEMBERS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
YOU WONDER IF THERE IS A
DISAGREEMENT ABOUT EXACTLY HOW
TO DEAL WITH THIS REPUTATIONAL
MIX. MIX.
THIS IS ALL SPECULATION BUT IT
HIGHLIGHTS THIS FEELING THAT
NOT EVERYONE IN THE
ADMINISTRATION IS WORKING
TOGETHER. TOGETHER. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
A FEW DAYS AWAY FROM THE FED
DECISION BUT WE DON'T KNOW WHO
WILL BE THERE. WILL BE THERE.
STEPHEN MIRON, WILL LISA COOK
BE THERE? BE THERE?
WE IMAGINE THEY WILL BE CUTTING
RATES. RATES. LISA: LISA:
IT'S A DIFFICULT ENOUGH TIME
ECONOMICALLY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
IS GOING ON. IS GOING ON.
THERE IS A QUESTION, DOES IT
CHANGE ANYTHING GIVEN WHAT THE
COMPOSITIONAL CHANGES MAY BE AS
FAR AS DECISION-MAKING GOES?
BUT DOESN'T GIVE THE MARKET
MORE OF A QUESTION AROUND THE
INDEPENDENCE OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE? RESERVE?
DOES THAT GET US THE FURTHER
AWAY FROM THAT 3% SWEET SPOT IN
THE 10-YEAR THAT HE WOULD LIKE
TO SEE. TO SEE. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
WE WILL CATCH UP WITH MIKE
CONTOPOULOS OF RICHARD
BERNSTEIN ADVISORS AS STOCKS
STREET NEAR ALL-TIME HIGHS.
CHRIS MARINAC ON A NEW DEAL IN
THE BANKING SECTOR.
STEVE ENGLANDER LOOKING FOR A
50 BASIS POINT RATE CUT NEXT
WEEK FROM THIS FEDERAL RESERVE.
STOCKS INCHING HIGHER AHEAD OF
KEY INFLATION DATA THIS WEEK.
MIKE CONTOPOULOS WRITING THE
FED WILL NOT BAIL OUT MARKETS.
THEY ARE CAUGHT BETWEEN A ROCK
AND A HARD PLACE.
WE IMAGINE THAT UNTIL
UNEMPLOYMENT ACCELERATES THE
FED WILL USE ONLY MODESTLY.
THIS IS AN INTERESTING TAKE.
25 BASIS POINTS NEXT WEEK, AND
THEN WHAT DO YOU THINK HAPPENS
AFTER THAT? AFTER THAT? MIKE:
MIKE: REALLY THE FED IS DATA
REALLY THE FED IS DATA
DEPENDENT. DEPENDENT.
I DON'T THINK THEY ARE AS
POLITICALLY MOTIVATED AS SOME
WANT THEM OR ASSUME THEM TO BE.
I THINK IT WILL DEPEND ON WHAT
HAPPENS IN THE LABOR MARKET.
IT WILL DEPEND ON WHAT HAPPENS
TO INFLATION. TO INFLATION.
WE JUST HAPPEN TO THINK
INFLATION WILL BE HIGHER THAN
WHAT IS EXPECTED.
I THINK THEY WILL CUT LESS THAN
THE MARKET EXPECTS, LESS THAN
SOME OF THE RECENT UPGRADES
SELL SIDE SHOPS.
SELL SIDE SHOPS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
CHAIRMAN POWELL SAID WE COULD
HAVE A ONE EFFECT FROM TARIFFS,
WHICH SETS YOU UP FOR A SET OF
HOTTER THAN EXPECTED PRINCE.
WHY WOULD THEY BECOME SENSITIVE
TO IT? TO IT? MIKE: MIKE:
THE OIL EMBARGO OF THE 1970'S
WERE SUPPOSED TO BE A ONE-OFF
EVENT. EVENT.
THE COVID SUPPLY CHAIN SHOCK
WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A ONE-OFF
EVENT BUT WE ARE STILL AT 3%.
A LOT OF THESE EVENTS TURNED
OUT TO BE NON-ONE-OFF EVENTS.
I FIND IT IRONIC THAT CHAIR
POWELL ALSO MENTIONS HOW WHEN
WASHING MACHINES WERE TARIFFED,
SO WHERE DRYERS, SO THIS BILL
IN EFFECT. IN EFFECT.
I'M NOT ENTIRELY CONVINCED THAT
THIS REALLY WILL BE A ONE-OFF
INFLATIONARY EVENT.
I THINK WHAT YOU'LL SEE IS
LONGER-LASTING INFLATION, MAYBE
NOT AT FIVE, 6%, BUT INFLATION
THAT FEEDS THROUGH FOR QUITE
SOME TIME. SOME TIME.
TARIFFS, YOU CANNOT HAVE YOUR
CAKE AND EAT IT, TOO.
SOMETHING HAS TO GIVE.
SOMETHING HAS TO GIVE. LISA:
LISA:
RIGHT NOW, THE MARKET DOESN'T
SEEM TOO WORRIED ABOUT THE
SCENARIO THAT YOU LAID OUT.
MIKE: MIKE:
IN THE LAST SEGMENT, YOU
MENTIONED THE MARKET IS PRICING
IN THIS GOLDILOCKS SCENARIO.
GOING BACK TO THIS IDEA THAT
YOU CANNOT HAVE YOUR CAKE AND
EAT IT, TOO. EAT IT, TOO.
THE WEIGHTED AVERAGE TARIFF
RATE OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF
MONTHS IS EXACTLY WHAT THE
MARKET WAS PRICING ON APRIL 2
WHEN IT TANKED. WHEN IT TANKED.
NOW WE ARE ACTUALLY REALIZING
IT AND THE MARKET IS LOOKING
STRAIGHT THROUGH IT, THEY
EXPECT NO INFLATION, THEY
EXPECT EARNINGS TO GO UP.
EVERY ANALYST HAS UP THEIR
EARNINGS ESTIMATES.
I THINK THEY ARE MISSING ON
CORPORATE PROFITS AND THE
FOLLOW-THROUGH TO INFLATION.
LISA: LISA:
WHAT IS BIGGER FOR YOU, THE
IDEA THAT INFLATION GETS
SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER THAN WE
ARE NOW, OR THE IDEA THAT THE
DOWNTURN IN THE JOBS MARKET IS
A REAL CYCLICAL DOWNTURN THAT
REALLY QUESTION SOME OF THE
MOMENTUM WE ARE SEEING,
PARTICULARLY IN CYCLICAL
PARTICULARLY IN CYCLICAL STOCKS?
STOCKS? MIKE: MIKE:
I THINK IT'S A COMBINATION OF
THE TWO, NOT EITHER OR.
GIVEN THE RECENT JOBS DATA AND
REVISIONS, SOME OF THE RISKS
HAVE TRANSFERRED MORE TO LABOR,
DEMAND DESTRUCTION COMING FROM
A WEAKER LABOR MARKET.
BUT YOU WILL LOSE TOPLINE
GROWTH AS INFLATION GOES UP AND
CONSUMERS PULL BACK.
IT'S A COMBINATION OF THE TWO,
NOT NECESSARILY ONE OR THE
OTHER. OTHER. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
YOU ARE ACROSS ASSETS BUT YOUR
BABY IS FIXED INCOME.
GIVEN THE SCENARIOS YOU ARE
FORECASTING, WHERE DOES THAT
LEAVE THE YIELD CURVE?
LEAVE THE YIELD CURVE? MIKE:
MIKE: TOUGH TO SAY.
TOUGH TO SAY.
THE FED IS LIKELY TO CUT 25,
THE MARKET HAS LARGELY PRICE
THAT IN. THAT IN.
RIGHT NOW, STEEPER IS PROBABLY
THE RIGHT CALL AS YOU HAVE
INFLATIONARY WORKERS PUTTING
PRESSURE ON THE BACKEND.
FRIDAY'S PRINT WAS ACTUALLY A
BIT SURPRISING IN TERMS OF HOW
THE LONG AND REACTED -- END
REACTED. REACTED.
IT RALLY QUITE A BIT.
THAT SUGGESTS THAT THE LONG END
IS STILL SENSITIVE TO ECONOMIC
DATA. DATA.
THE QUESTION IS HOW MUCH WILL
IT BE SENSITIVE TO ECONOMIC
DATA, IF THE DATA WEAKENS BUT
DOES NOT FALL OFF A CLIFF?
I THINK STEEPER FOR NOW AS WE
GO INTO THE SEPTEMBER RATE CUT,
BUT FROM THERE, IT IS ANYONE'S
GUESS. GUESS. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
DO WE HAVE FALLEN YIELDS IN
THAT STEEPENING CURVE AT THE
LONG END? LONG END?
WHEN YOU SAY STEEPENERS, YOU
CAN DO IT IN VARIOUS WAYS.
10'S AND 30-YEAR DROPPING WITH
THAT OR NOT AT THESE LEVELS?
MIKE: MIKE:
I THINK IT LARGELY COMES BACK
TO WHAT HAPPENS WITH INFLATION
AND THE JOBS NUMBERS.
IF YOU GET A REALLY BAD PRINT
ON INFLATION THIS WEEK, THE
LONG END COULD EASILY GO UP.
THE FRONT WILL GO UP AS WELL IN
TERMS OF YIELDS.
IF THE LABOR MARKET CONTINUES
TO WEAKEN, INFLATION ISN'T
QUITE AS BAD, HANGS OUT AROUND
3.1%, THE ENTIRE CURVE COULD
FALL LESS THAN THE FRONT END.
LISA: LISA: IS THE U.S.
IS THE U.S. STILL BEHAVING?
STILL BEHAVING?
EARLIER THIS YEAR, PEOPLE SAY
NO, YOU SEE THAT IN THE DOLLAR
AND GOLD. AND GOLD.
BUT WHERE ELSE ARE YOU GOING TO
GO, FRANCE, JAPAN?
THERE IS THIS IDEA OF CLEANEST
SHIRT IN THE LAUNDRY BEEN.
HOW MUCH HAS YOUR VIEW OF THE
U.S. U.S. VERSUS X U.S.
VERSUS X U.S.
HAS CHANGED IN THE PAST FEW
MONTHS? MONTHS? MIKE: MIKE:
THE U.S. THE U.S.
TREASURY MARKET IS STILL THE
WORLD SAFE HAVEN.
WHEN THINGS GET BAD, YOU'LL SEE
INVESTORS FLOCK TO TREASURIES.
IT WILL PROBABLY BE THE BELLY
OF THE CURVE. OF THE CURVE.
THAT WILL ULTIMATELY BE THE
PART THAT OUTPERFORMS OVER THE
MEDIUM-TERM. MEDIUM-TERM.
FROM AN EQUITY POINT OF VIEW,
THE CONDITIONS THAT REALLY
CREATED U.S. CREATED U.S.
EXCEPTIONALISM WAS LOW
INFLATION, ZERO INTEREST RATE
POLICY, ALLOWING FOR PRIVATE
EQUITY, VENTURE CAPITAL AND
GROWTH, WHICH THE U.S.
IS EXCEPTIONAL AT, TO PERFORM
REALLY WELL. REALLY WELL.
IF THE LANDSCAPE IS CHANGING TO
ONE OF HIGHER INTEREST RATES,
HIGHER INFLATION,
DEGLOBALIZATION, THE DICHOTOMY
CHANGES. CHANGES.
I THINK YOU'LL SEE GLOBAL
LEADERSHIP OUTSIDE THE U.S.
FROM AN EQUITY PERSPECTIVE.
LISA: LISA:
YOU ARE ALSO A SMALL BUSINESS
OWNER. OWNER. HAS IT BEEN FUN?
HAS IT BEEN FUN? MIKE: MIKE:
IT'S BEEN TOUGH.
COFFEE PRICES HAVE GONE UP
TREMENDOUSLY, ABOUT 60%.
WE ARE TAKING HITS ON BOTH
MARGINS WITHOUT A DOUBT.
WE ALSO HAVE PASSED THROUGH
QUITE A BIT OF OUR COST TO OUR
CUSTOMERS AS WELL.
CUSTOMERS AS WELL. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
IS THAT BECAUSE YOU CANNOT PASS
IT ALL ON AT THE MOMENT?
IT ALL ON AT THE MOMENT? MIKE:
MIKE:
THERE IS A ONLY SO MUCH THAT
YOU CAN PASS ON WITH DRIP
COFFEE. COFFEE.
I WOULD WARN LISTENERS THAT THE
ESPRESSO-BASED DRINKS ARE ONLY
GOING HIGHER. GOING HIGHER.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN: THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OWNS A FEW COFFEE SHOPS ACROSS
WESTCHESTER. WESTCHESTER. LISA:
LISA:
GET READY TO PAY $15 FOR YOUR
LATTE THAT YOU LOVE.
WHAT IS IT NOW, PUMPKIN SPICE?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
I SAW THAT PROMOTED IN AUGUST.
LISA: LISA:
I DON'T TAKE YOU AS A PUMPKIN
SPICE GUY. SPICE GUY.
YOU LIKE PUMPKIN PIE?
YOU LIKE PUMPKIN PIE? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
SURE, I WILL HAVE THAT FOR
THANKSGIVING. THANKSGIVING.
BUT NOT IN MY COFFEE.
BUT NOT IN MY COFFEE. LISA:
LISA:
YOU COULD JUST HAVE COFFEE THAT
TASTES LIKE IT. TASTES LIKE IT.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
NOT A BIG COFFEE GUY ANYWAY.
CAFFEINE FREE. CAFFEINE FREE.
BELIEVE IT OR NOT.
WITH AN UPDATE ON STORIES
ELSEWHERE, HERE'S YAHAIRA
ELSEWHERE, HERE'S YAHAIRA ANAND.
ANAND. YAHAIRA: YAHAIRA:
PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS A SHORT
LIST OF CANDIDATES TO REPLACE A
JAY POWELL WHEN HIS TERM
EXPIRES IN THE SPRING.
KEVIN HASSETT, CHRIS WALLER,
AND KEVIN WARSH ARE THE
FINALISTS. FINALISTS.
THE FED'S CREDIBILITY COULD BE
PUT IN JEOPARDY BY EXPANDING ON
ITS MANDATE. ITS MANDATE.
STUBHUB IS SEEKING TO RAISE 850
$1 MILLION IN AN INITIAL PUBLIC
OFFERING. OFFERING.
THE PLATFORM PLANS TO OFFER 34
MILLION SHARES FOR $22 TO $25
ACCORDING TO ITS FILING.
A PLAN TO LIST ON THE NEW YORK
STOCK EXCHANGE. STOCK EXCHANGE.
SHARES OF ECHOSTAR ARE SURGING
20% IN THE PREMARKET.
SPACEX'S STARLINK AGREED TO BY
WIRELESS LICENSES.
THE DEAL CONSISTS OF UP TO $8.5
BILLION IN CASH AND 8.5 BILLION
DOLLARS IN SPACEX STOCK.
THE COMPANY WILL ALSO FUND $2
BILLION WORTH OF CASH INTEREST
PAYMENTS ON ECHOSTAR DEBT
THROUGH NOVEMBER 2027.
THROUGH NOVEMBER 2027. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
NEXT, THE MORNING CALLS, PLUS
CHRIS MARINAC OF JANNEY
MONTGOMERY SCOTT WITH A NEW
DEAL IN THE BANKING SECTOR.
THAT CONVERSATION IS NEXT.
FROM NEW YORK CITY, GOOD
MORNING. MORNING.
♪ ♪
>> THE FED IS GOING TO CUT 25
BASIS POINTS IN SEPTEMBER, AND
IT WILL NOT BE ENOUGH, AND THEY
WILL CUT 25 BASIS POINTS THE
NEXT MEETING, AND WILL NOT BE
ENOUGH. ENOUGH.
IT WILL NOT BE ENOUGH TO
SATISFY THE PRESIDENT THAT
WANTS IMMEDIATE, DRASTIC CUTS
IN RATES. IN RATES.
LOOKING AT WHAT THE ECONOMY
NEEDS, YOU CANNOT SIT ON THE
FOMC TODAY AND SAY THAT RIGHT
THING TO BE DRASTICALLY LOWER.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THAT IS FROM ELLEN ZENTNER.
EQUITY FUTURES ON THE S&P 500
DOING OK, UP BY 0.1% ON THE
DOING OK, UP BY 0.1% ON THE S&P.
S&P. DOING BETTER THAN OK ON THE
DOING BETTER THAN OK ON THE
NASDAQ, UP BY .25%.
JEFFRIES RAISING ITS PRICE
TARGET ON APPLE TO 205, SAYING
THE GOOD NEWS IS IN THE PRICE.
THE SECOND CALL FROM TD COWMAN,
RAISING ITS PRICE TARGET ON
JETBLUE $25, CITING STRONG
PRICING AND PREMIUM FAIR
MOMENTUM. MOMENTUM.
CITY CUTTING ITS PRICE TARGET
ON NVIDIA TO 200, EXPECTING A
SALES BUMP. SALES BUMP.
PNC BANK FIRST BANK IN A DEAL
VALUED AT MORE THAN $4 BILLION.
THE ACQUISITION WILL ADDED 90
FIVE BRANCHES TO PNC'S NETWORK.
JOINING US NOW IS OUR REGIONAL
BANK ANALYST. TALK TO US ABOUT
THE DEAL, WHERE IT COMES FROM,
WHY IT MAKES SENSE.
>> PNC HAS TALKED ABOUT GROWING
ORGANICALLY IN SOME OF ITS
MARKETS INCLUDING DENVER, THE
SOUTHEAST, BUILDING UPON WHAT
THEY'VE DONE WITH THE BBVA DEAL
A FEW YEARS BACK.
THE REGULATORY BACKDROP HAS
BEEN REALLY POSITIVE.
YOU HAVE SEEN REGIONAL BANK
DEALS CLOSE QUICKLY COME AGAIN
REALLY FAST APPROVAL, SO THIS
IS SOMETHING WE EXPECT TO SEE
GOING FORWARD FOR THE REGIONAL
BANK SPACE. BANK SPACE. LISA:
LISA:
THAT IS WHAT I WAS GOING TO
ASK, IS THIS GOING TO OPEN UP A
WATERSHED MOMENT TO OPEN UP A
BUNCH OF DEALS IN THE PIPELINE?
CAN YOU GIVE US A SENSE OF THE
SCOPE OF THOSE DEALS?
SCOPE OF THOSE DEALS? HERMAN:
HERMAN:
M&A HAVE BEEN MORE CONSTRUCTIVE
OVER THE PAST MONTHS.
YOU HAVE SEEN HUNTINGTON BUY
VERITEX. VERITEX.
THIS IS THE THIRD LARGE
REGIONAL BANK DEAL OF ITS SIZE
WITHIN THE SPACE.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT WILL
CONTINUE GOING FORWARD.
WE HAVE THOUSANDS OF BANKS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
SCALE IS KING, AND WE'VE SEEN
THE LARGEST BANKS GROW AT A
MUCH FASTER PACE THAN THE
REGIONALS. REGIONALS.
MARKETSHARE IS INCUMBENT TO WIN
THE BATTLE FOR CUSTOMERS.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
FORGIVE ME IF THIS SOUNDS LIKE
A NEEDLESSLY DIFFICULT
QUESTION, BUT IS A REGIONAL
BANKS TO A REGIONAL BANK WHEN
THEY WANT TO BECOME A
COAST-TO-COAST LENDER?
COAST-TO-COAST LENDER? HERMAN:
HERMAN:
FOR SOME OF THE LARGER ONES, I
WOULD CALL THEM SUPER REGIONAL
BANKS THAT HAVE GRADUATED FROM
THE REGIONAL BANK MONIKER BUT
ARE NOT THE SIZE OF JP MORGAN
OR B OF A. OR B OF A. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
I APPRECIATE YOUR TAKE.
JOINING US TO BUILD ON THE
CONVERSATION, CHRIS MARINAC OF
JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT.
IS THIS THE START OF SOMETHING
BIGGER? BIGGER?
MIKE: MIKE: ABSOLUTELY.
ABSOLUTELY.
THERE ARE SEVERAL MORE IN THE
PIPELINE. PIPELINE.
THE CONSOLIDATION OF THIS
INJURY -- INDUSTRY HAS BEEN
HAPPENING FOR 40 YEARS.
THE REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT IS
MUCH BETTER TODAY.
I ALSO THINK IT IS GOOD FOR
CUSTOMERS. CUSTOMERS.
IF YOU ARE IN COLORADO, YOU NOW
HAVE ACCESS TO A NATIONAL BANK
PLATFORM WITH PNC.
THEY ARE BUYING A BANK WITH
VERY GOOD DEPOSITS, LOW COST
FUNDING, AND THEY ALSO HAVE A
LOT OF MORTGAGES THEY ARE
PICKING UP, WHICH ARE IMMEDIATE
CUSTOMERS THAT CAN CROSS SELL.
THIS BANK HAS ALMOST 50% OF
THEIR PORTFOLIO IN RESIDENTIAL
FAMILY MORTGAGES.
FAMILY MORTGAGES. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
ARE SOME MARKETS BETTER THAN
OTHERS? OTHERS? MIKE: MIKE:
THE SOUTHWEST HAS THE BEST
POPULATION GROWTH EVEN
POST-COVID. POST-COVID.
WE STILL HAVE A LOT OF MOVE INS
TO TEXAS, TAX INCENTIVES IN
GEORGIA AND FLORIDA ARE
GEORGIA AND FLORIDA ARE POPULAR.
POPULAR.
THE CAROLINAS ARE DOING WELL.
THOSE ARE THE MARKETS MOST LIKE
TO HAVE THE BEST BANK DEMAND.
EVEN IN THE WEST, MOUNTAIN
STATES LIKE COLORADO HAVE BEEN
A BOOM. A BOOM.
IT'S A MIGRATION FROM
CALIFORNIA THAT'S BEEN
HAPPENING FOR YEARS,
ACCELERATED DURING COVID.
COLORADO SPECIFICALLY HAS BEEN
A STANDOUT. A STANDOUT.
THAT IS OBVIOUSLY ON THE RADAR
SCREEN. SCREEN.
DEMOGRAPHICALLY, YOU'LL SEE THE
PACIFIC NORTHWEST STILL
ATTRACTED, CERTAIN POCKETS LIKE
THE MIDWEST LIKE CHICAGO ARE
HAVING A REEMERGENCE
PARTICULARLY AS YOU HAVE ON
SHORING CONTINUED TO TAKE
SHORING CONTINUED TO TAKE PLACE.
PLACE. LISA: LISA:
I'M TRYING TO GRAPPLE WITH THE
SCOPE OF THE M&A WE ARE ABOUT
TO SEE. TO SEE.
WE'VE HEARD REPORTS ABOUT 4000
REGIONAL BANKS GETTING
CONSOLIDATED DOWN TO 2000 OR
1000 BANKS IN THE NEXT NUMBER
OF YEARS. OF YEARS.
WHAT DO YOU SEE AS THE SCOPE OF
THIS MERGER AND ACQUISITIONS
WAVE? WAVE? MIKE: MIKE:
ABOUT 4500 U.S. ABOUT 4500 U.S.
BANK CHARTERS IN THE FDIC'S
SYSTEM ALIVE TODAY.
I COULD SEE THAT COMING DOWN BY
ABOUT 15 OR 20%.
I'M NOT SURE IT WILL GO DOWN TO
1000. 1000.
I THINK YOU STILL HAVE A LOT OF
FAMILY-RUN BANKS THAT WILL STAY
INTACT. INTACT.
YOU HAVE A LOT OF COMMUNITY
BANKS THAT DON'T HAVE A BID, SO
THAT WON'T COME UP THE
HEADCOUNT. HEADCOUNT.
IN TERMS OF MIDSIZE, YOU WILL
SEE SOME CONSOLIDATION.
WHAT IS INTERESTING TO ME IS
PROBABLY GOING TO FORM MORE
BANKS LIKE WHAT WE SAW YEARS
AGO? AGO?
WE HAVE THE COMMERCE SKIDS
GREASED BY THE TREASURY, BY THE
FED, OCC, TO ALLOW
CONSOLIDATION TO TAKE PLACE AT
A MUCH FASTER PACE.
WE ARE GETTING DEALS APPROVED
WAY SOONER THAN WE USE THE LAST
COUPLE YEARS. COUPLE YEARS.
LISA: LISA:
HOW MUCH DOES A TURN IN THE
ECONOMIC CYCLE CHALLENGE THAT?
THIS IS THE TENSION THAT WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT ALL MORNING.
IS IT A GOOD THING TO SEE THE
FED CUTTING RATES OR A BAD
THING? THING?
HOW MUCH DOES THAT ACT AS A
SUPPORT OR DETRIMENT TO THESE
DEALS, THE OUTLOOK AND A LOT OF
THESE FIRMS? THESE FIRMS? MIKE:
MIKE:
I THINK INVESTORS LIKE LOWER
INTEREST RATES. INTEREST RATES.
THE COST FOR FUNDS WITH BANKS
DROPPED A LOT WITH THE FIRST
100 BASIS POINT CUT.
I THINK YOU'LL SEE ABOUT 30, 30
5% BETAS FOR BANK FUNDING
5% BETAS FOR BANK FUNDING COSTS.
COSTS.
THAT WILL BE HELD FOR FOUR NET
INTEREST MARGINS TO STAY WHERE
THEY ARE OR EXPAND.
THE CAPABILITY OF BANKS TO
SOLVE ANY CREDIT ISSUES THEY
HAVE IS BETTER WITH ANOTHER 25
OR 50 BASIS POINTS OF RATE
OR 50 BASIS POINTS OF RATE CUTS.
CUTS.
I THINK IT'S A POSITIVE, NOT A
NEGATIVE. NEGATIVE.
THERE ARE SOME BANKS THAT WILL
GET A NEAR-TERM SQUEEZE BUT
ULTIMATELY BANKS ARE RESETTING
INTEREST RATES FROM THE PAST
FEW YEARS, ALTHOUGH RATES IN
2020, 2021. 2020, 2021.
ANYTHING THAT IS ENABLING
THINGS TO TURN OVER I THINK IS
POSITIVE IN THE BIG PICTURE.
I STILL SEE MORE POSITIVES THAN
NEGATIVES FROM THE RATE CUTS
UPON US. UPON US. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK IT MOVES
THE VOLUME ON THE AMOUNT OF
DEMAND SITTING OUT THERE FOR
LOANS, MORTGAGES, THAT HAS
WAITED FOR THIS MOMENT?
25 DOESN'T MOVE THE DIAL THAT
MUCH. MUCH.
50, 75, HOW DO YOU THINK ABOUT
THAT? THAT? MIKE: MIKE:
50 WOULD MOVE THE DIAL.
IF YOU WOULD MOVE THE DIAL, 75
WOULD BE A BEHAVIOR CHANGE.
I'M NOT SURE THAT WE GET 75
THIS QUICKLY. THIS QUICKLY.
HOWEVER, SEEING THE 10-YEAR
BREAK WAS HELPFUL.
IF YOU CAN GET MORTGAGES DOWN,
THERE ARE A AWFUL LOT OF FENCE
SITTERS OUT THERE.
THERE WERE ALSO A LOT OF FOLKS
THAT HAVE DECIDED NOT TO BORROW
MORE IN THE CORPORATE SECTOR.
THAT COULD BE A BIGGER BOON FOR
THE BANKING INDUSTRY.
WE HAVE A TUNNEL LIQUIDITY
BETWEEN U.S. BETWEEN U.S.
DEPOSITS, MONEY MARKET FUNDS.
THEY HAVE BEEN GROWING NICELY
THIS YEAR. THIS YEAR.
YOU CAN PUT THAT TO WORK INTO
LOANS MUCH MORE.
BUT BANKS ARE ALSO BUYING
SECURITIES, ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE
MONEY AND DRIVE SPREAD INCOME.
WE HAVE A REALLY GOOD THIRD
QUARTER AHEAD OF US THAT WILL
BE TALKED ABOUT AT SOME OF THE
CONFERENCES THIS WEEK,
GENERALLY SHOULD BE GOOD AS
OCTOBER ROLLS AROUND.
OCTOBER ROLLS AROUND. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
ONE FINAL QUESTION, TOP PICKS
AT THE MOMENT, WHAT DO YOU
AT THE MOMENT, WHAT DO YOU LIKE?
LIKE? MIKE: MIKE: FIFTH THIRD.
FIFTH THIRD. CITIZENS. CITIZENS.
WE ARE A POSITIVE ON THE
PINNACLE MERGER.
WE THINK THERE IS A LOT OF
OPPORTUNITY THERE AS WELL.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
APPRECIATE IT. APPRECIATE IT.
CHRISTOPHER MERRIMACK ON BANKS.
THAT WALL OF DEMAND THAT WE
HAVE SEEN THEIR WAITING FOR
THIS MOMENT, LET'S SEE IF IT IS
UNLEASHED. UNLEASHED. LISA:
LISA:
THE IDEA THAT THE PIPELINE HAS
BEEN SO STRONG FOR SO LONG,
WHEN DOES IT GET UNLEASHED?
WE HAVE HEARD FOR SO MANY
MONTHS, THE CORPORATE M&A
PIPELINE IS SO STACKED AND THEN
IT NEVER COMES TO FRUITION.
IS IT ENOUGH TO SEE 20 FIVE
BASIS POINTS TO CHANGE THE
EQUATION? EQUATION? MAYBE NOT.
MAYBE NOT.
75 BEING A GAME CHANGER IS
INTERESTING BECAUSE THAT IS
INCREASINGLY WHAT IS BEING
PRICED INTO THE MARKET.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
I AM RIGHT THERE WITH CHRIS.
WHAT HAPPENED ON FRIDAY,
YESTERDAY WAS BAD, BUT THE FACT
THAT LONG BONDS RALLIED, IT IS
ACTUALLY SPREADING THROUGH THE
CURVE AND YIELDS ARE COMING
DOWN ACROSS THE CURVE
PARTICULARLY AT THE LONG END,
AND THAT MORTGAGE ACTIVITY.
LISA: LISA:
THE REASON WHY I SAY THIS IS
NOT TO BE A PAIN IN THE BUTT,
BUT ULTIMATELY TO SAY THAT THIS
IS A MARKET THAT IS SO
CONFUSING, ALSO WHY THERE HAS
BEEN HESITATION TO COMPLETE
DEALS. DEALS.
NOTABLE THAT THIS DEAL IS
ANNOUNCED AND HIGHLIGHTS HOW
THE BANKING SECTOR HAS BEEN
UNIQUELY POSITIONED GIVEN THE
CHANGE IN ATTITUDE AT THE WHITE
HOUSE TO WHERE THE FINANCIAL
SECTOR TRYING TO SUPPORT
REGIONAL BANKS IN PARTICULAR.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WE JUST DON'T WANT TO SEE A
REPEAT OF LAST YEAR.
THE GOOD NEWS SO FAR AS WE ARE
NOT SEEING THAT.
NOT SEEING THAT. LISA: LISA:
PEOPLE WERE SAYING THIS WAS A
POSITIVE SIGNAL, ALSO COMING
WITH THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE
BROUGHT DOWN THE ENTIRE
EXPECTATION FOR WHERE THE FED
WOULD END OF NEXT YEAR, THE
IDEA OF THE NEUTRAL RATE.
IT IS EARLY DAYS.
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO GATHER HOW
MUCH ARE WE ENTERING INTO A
DOWNTREND THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY BE NEGATIVE FOR THE
ECONOMY. ECONOMY.
THIS IS HEAD SPINNING.
THIS IS HEAD SPINNING. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
THE FRONT END BY A SINGLE BASIS
POINT. POINT. 2'S AT 3.50.
2'S AT 3.50.
CATCHING UP WITH KATHY
BOSTJANCIC AS INVESTORS GEAR UP
FOR A BUSY WEEK OF INVESTOR
REPORTS. REPORTS.
DANI HAS MOVES ON STOCKS --
NEWS ON STOCKS JOINING THE S&P
500. 500.
♪ ♪
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
EQUITY FUTURES POSITIVE BOND
.1%. .1%. UP .3% ON THE NASDAQ.
UP .3% ON THE NASDAQ.
ON THE RUSSELL, THE SMALL CAP
RUN CONTINUES. RUN CONTINUES.
FIVE CONSECUTIVE WEEKS OF GAINS
FOR SMALL LED BY THE RUSSELL
2000 OFF A REPRICING OF RATE
CUTS FROM THE FEDERAL RESERVE
OVER THE NEXT YEAR.
LET'S GET MORNING MOVERS AHEAD
OF THE CASH OPEN.
OF THE CASH OPEN. DANI: DANI:
DEAL NEWS THIS MORNING.
EGO EGO
COSTAR GAINING OFF THE BACK OF
SPACEX'S DEAL. SPACEX'S DEAL.
IT GIVES THEM THE ABILITY TO
DELIVER DIRECTED DEVICE
INTERNET. INTERNET.
THE BAD NEWS IS FOR THE LIKES
OF T-MOBILE WHO HAD BEEN
PARTNERING WITH THEM.
ECHOSTAR UP 9%. ECHOSTAR UP 9%.
ORACLE WILL REPORT AFTER THE
BELL TOMORROW AND HAS A LOT OF
UPGRADES FROM THE LIKES OF
MORGAN STANLEY AND J.P.
MORGAN STANLEY AND J.P. MORGAN.
MORGAN.
THE BAR HAS BEEN SET HIGH.
SHARES ARE UP 3%.
WE GOT THE REBALANCING OF THE
S&P 500 ON WHO WOULD BE
INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
BOTH GAINING BECAUSE THEY WILL
BE HAVING A LOT OF PASSIVE
MONEY FLOWING INTO THEM.
YOU GET ANOTHER FINANCIAL
SERVICES COMPANY INCLUDED INTO
THE S&P 500. THE S&P 500.
BOTH OF THOSE SOME OF THE TOP
GAINERS THIS MORNING.
GAINERS THIS MORNING. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
LOOKING FORWARD TO THE PROGRAM.
DANI BURGER AND MATT MILLER
TAKING OVER AT 9:00 FOR "OPEN
INTEREST" INTEREST" AT 9:00 A.M.
AT 9:00 A.M.
A WEEK OF ECONOMIC DATA
INCLUDING CPI AND PPI.
MICHAEL MCKEE JOINS US NOW.
MICHAEL: MICHAEL:
DANI AND I WERE TALKING ABOUT
HOW CRAZY IT LAST WEEK WAS, HOW
CRAZY THIS WEEK WILL BE, AND
HOW CRAZY NEXT WEEK WILL BE.
THAT'S LOOK AT THE LAST DATA
THAT COULD IN FLUENCE THE FED.
TODAY WE GET THE EXPECTATIONS
INDEX. INDEX.
YOU KNOW HOW MUCH THE FED CARES
ABOUT KEEPING RATE BELIEFS
ANCHOR. ANCHOR.
TOMORROW, THEY HAVE THE INDEX
PEOPLE WILL WATCH.
AND PAYROLL REVISIONS COULD BE
THE SNEAKY NUMBER OF THE WEEK
IF IT PROVOKES PEOPLE AT THE
WHITE HOUSE. WHITE HOUSE.
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY THE BIG
DAYS WITH PPI AND CPI.
THEN WE GET ANOTHER INFLATION
EXPECTATIONS NUMBER ON FRIDAY
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF
WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.
MICHIGAN.
ALL THE INFLATION STUFF ADDS UP
TO THIS. TO THIS.
WILL WE SEE THE CORE RATE GO
EVEN HIGHER? EVEN HIGHER?
IT IS ABOUT 3% NOW.
DOES IT GET UP TO A POINT WHERE
THE FED MIGHT RECONSIDER THE
IDEA OF A RATE CUT?
HARD TO SEE THAT HAPPENING BUT
I GUESS IT IS POSSIBLE SO KEEP
OUR EYES ON THAT.
THAT IS NOT ALL FOR THE WEEK.
THE DATA ARE NOT THE ONLY
THE DATA ARE NOT THE ONLY THING.
THING.
NEWS ON WHETHER LISA COOK CAN
STAY ON THE FED IS DUE ANY DAY
NOW. NOW.
WE ARE WAITING TO HEAR FROM THE
SUPREME COURT ON WHETHER IT
WILL TAKE THE CASE ON THE
TARIFFS RULED ILLEGAL LAST
TARIFFS RULED ILLEGAL LAST WEEK.
WEEK. THEN WE HAVE SCOTT BESSENT
THEN WE HAVE SCOTT BESSENT
VERSUS WILLIAM PULTE.
PULTE HAS BEEN PUSHING TO GET
RID OF COOK. RID OF COOK.
IS THIS GOING TO HAVE ANY
IMPACT ON THAT? IMPACT ON THAT?
A LOT TO WATCH THIS WEEK AND IT
WILL BE ANOTHER CRAZY WEEK.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
SCOTT BESSENT HAS FORM WITH HIS
LEFT HOOK BASED ON WHAT WE HAVE
HEARD FROM ELON MUSK THE LAST
FEW MONTHS. FEW MONTHS. MICHAEL:
MICHAEL:
SCOTT BESSENT IS A FAIRLY BIG
GUY. GUY.
HE COULD PROBABLY TAKE EITHER
ONE OF US OUT. ONE OF US OUT.
I AM NOT FIGHTING WITH HIM.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
I AM NOT EITHER.
I HAVE NO DOUBT HE COULD DO
THAT. THAT.
YOU WONDER HOW MUCH THE
INFLATION STORY WILL SHAPE THE
MEETING. MEETING.
THERE IS CONSENSUS THE DATA
MATCHES LESS EFFORT THE
PAYROLLS RATE ON FRIDAY.
PAYROLLS RATE ON FRIDAY. DANI:
DANI:
FROM JAY POWELL IN WYOMING, A
REAL EMPHASIS ON THE LABOR
MARKET TAKING MORE PRECEDENT
THAN THE INFLATION DATA.
THERE MIGHT BE A HIGH BAR FOR
INFLATION TO BE TOO HIGH TO CUT
BUT HOW LOW IS THE BAR FOR
INFLATION TO BE SO LOW THAT
THEY CUT BY MORE?
I WONDER HOW MUCH THAT IS
INCREASINGLY IN THE DISCUSSION?
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
KATHY P KATHY P
KATHY BO JAN SICK WRITING THE
FOLLOWING. FOLLOWING.
SHE JOINS US NOW FOR MORE.
THERE IS A RATE CUT EVERY
MEETING GOING INTO YEAR END.
DOES THE INFLATION STORY
DOES THE INFLATION STORY MATTER?
MATTER? KATHY: KATHY:
IT IS NOT IRRELEVANT.
IT CERTAINLY DOES MATTER.
THE EMPHASIS IS SHIFTING MORE
TO THE LABOR MARKET AND
EMPLOYMENT. EMPLOYMENT.
WE CANNOT GET BIG NEGATIVE
SURPRISES IN INFLATION.
IF WE DO, THAT MAKES IT A
LITTLE TRICKIER.
ULTIMATELY, IT DOES COME BACK
TO THE LABOR MARKET.
EVEN IF WE GET SHOCKING
NUMBERS, IT WILL BE ANALYZED TO
SEE IF IT IS REPEATABLE AND IF
THESE ARE ONE-OFF CHANGES THAT
WILL FADE OVER TIME.
IT COULD INFLUENCE THE PACE OF
RATE CUTS AND THE TOTAL AMOUNT,
NOT NECESSARILY THE RATE CUTS
THEMSELVES. THEMSELVES.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THERE IS A FEELING AMONG MANY
WE HAVE REVISIONS BY THE TIME
WE GET THE DATA, THE FED WOULD
BE CUTTING ALREADY.
SOME OFFICIALS HAVE
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT.
IS THE DEBATE 25 VERSUS 50 NEXT
WEEK? WEEK?
DO YOU HAVE A DIFFERENT VIEW ON
THINGS? THINGS?
DOES 50 WORRY PEOPLE?
WOULD IT SPOKE PEOPLE?
DO THEY WORRY ABOUT THE OPTICS
OF 50 EVEN THOUGH IT MIGHT BE
REQUIRED? REQUIRED? KATHY:
KATHY: GREAT QUESTION.
GREAT QUESTION.
I THINK FROM THE FUNDAMENTALS,
IT COULD SUPPORT 50.
THE FED HAS GOTTEN BEHIND THE
CURVE. CURVE.
THAT IS WHY WE THOUGHT THEY
WOULD GO 75. WOULD GO 75.
A FEW MONTH AGO, WE HAD 50 AS
THE FORECAST FOR SEPTEMBER.
WE REMOVED THAT BECAUSE WE SAW
GETTING CONSENSUS AROUND THAT
WOULD BE MORE DIFFICULT.
IT IS NOT OFF THE TABLE BUT I
THINK I WOULD EXPECT THEM TO GO
MORE CAUTIOUSLY 25.
THERE ARE STILL SOME THAT WORRY
ABOUT INFLATION.
THEY COULD ALWAYS GO 50 IN
OCTOBER OR DECEMBER IF NEEDED
AND THEY CAN WAIT TO SEE MORE
DATA, IN MY OPINION.
I THINK WHAT HAS SPOOKED THE
MARKETS, IT MAY ALTHOUGH THE
NARRATIVE HAS SHIFTED EVERYONE
IS TALKING ABOUT 50 IN THE
MARKETS ARE PRICING IN SOME
ODDS OF THAT. ODDS OF THAT.
MAYBE IT WOULD NOT.
WE WERE THINKING A FEW WEEKS
AGO IT COULD BE TOO DRAMATIC.
DANI: DANI:
WE ARE ABOUT TO GET REVISIONS
TOMORROW OUT OF THE BLS.
THE EXPECTATION IS FOR
REVISIONS TO SHOW LESS MOMENTUM
HEADING INTO THE YEAR THROUGH
MARCH. MARCH.
YOU SAID THE FED IS BEHIND THE
CURVE WHEN IT COMES TO THE
EASING CYCLE. EASING CYCLE.
ARE WE OVERESTIMATING THEIR
ABILITY TO STAVE OFF A
ABILITY TO STAVE OFF A DOWNTURN?
DOWNTURN?
THAT IS SOMETHING WE KEEP
HEARING. HEARING. KATHY: KATHY:
THAT IS ANOTHER GREAT POINT.
WHAT CONCERNS ME IS IT IS A
COINCIDENTAL INDICATOR AND NOT
A LEADING INDICATOR.
IT HAS GONE FLAT LINE THE LAST
FOUR MONTHS. FOUR MONTHS.
WE WILL GET BACK TO REVISIONS
WHICH WILL BE SIZABLE.
IT DOES SUGGEST POLICY WAS TOO
RESTRICTED FOR TOO LONG.
THERE IS ALWAYS THE POSSIBILITY
WE GET THE HARDER LANDING.
I GUESS WHAT I SEE IN THE LABOR
MARKET IS COMPANIES PARALYZED
BY UNCERTAINTY GIVEN WE ARE
GETTING A LITTLE MORE
GETTING A LITTLE MORE CERTAINTY.
CERTAINTY.
IT IS STILL VERY HIGH BUT WE
ARE PAST PEAK UNCERTAINTY.
THERE COULD BE THE POSSIBILITY
OF LOOKING AHEAD NEXT YEAR OF
THEM STARTING TO HIRE AND
INVEST. IT IS NOT AS IF THE
RATES THEMSELVES HAVE PARALYZED
COMPANIES FROM HIRING.
IT IS REALLY THE UNCERTAINTY
AROUND TARIFFS. AROUND TARIFFS.
LISA: LISA:
YOU DO NOT THINK THIS IS THE
BEGINNING OF SOMETHING THAT
WOULD WARRANT THE FED TO BE
MUCH MORE AGGRESSIVE THIS YEAR
AND NEXT YEAR, IS THAT RIGHT?
KATHY: KATHY:
I GUESS IT DEPENDS.
WE HAVE HAD A 75 CALL FOR A
WHILE. WHILE.
THE MARKET IS NOW COMING TO
THAT. THAT.
IT IS SIZABLE BUT NOT 50 AT
EACH MEETING. EACH MEETING.
NEXT YEAR IS AN OPEN QUESTION.
RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE 50 BASIS
POINTS BECAUSE WE THINK
INFLATION LINGERS HIGHER.
MAYBE THAT RESTRAINS THEM.
IF THEY GO 75 NOW, THEY GET A
LITTLE CLOSER TO NEUTRAL.
THE COMPOSITION OF THE FOMC
WILL MATTER. WILL MATTER.
THEY COULD DO EVEN MORE RATE
CUTS NEXT YEAR IF THAT BECOMES
A BIG FACTOR. A BIG FACTOR.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
WE HAVE TALKED A LOT ABOUT THIS
ECONOMY. ECONOMY.
THIS IS A SUPER AWKWARD FEDERAL
RESERVE MEETING.
THE ISSUES OF GOVERNOR COOK.
THE PROSPECT STEPHEN MIRANT
MIGHT BE THERE. MIGHT BE THERE.
WITH THE NEWS CONFERENCE IN
FOCUS, NOT JUST THE AND
DECISION, WHAT DO YOU EXPECT
FROM THE FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIR
ABOUT THESE ISSUES IN NEWS
CONFERENCE? CONFERENCE? KATHY:
KATHY:
THIS IS AN IMPORTANT MEETING.
WE WILL GET THE PRESS
CONFERENCE AND THE FED'S
UPDATED ESTIMATES.
THOSE WILL BE SCRUTINIZED FOR
WHAT THEY ARE GIVING US IN
TERMS OF GUIDANCE.
HOW MUCH CAN THEY GIVE US IN
TERMS OF GUIDANCE?
THERE IS SO MUCH UNCERTAINTY
AND THE SHIFTING OF PERSONNEL
ON THE BOARD. ON THE BOARD.
IT WILL BE AN INTERESTING TIME.
I THINK CHAIR POWELL WILL BE
OPEN TO BEING MORE DOVISH AND
SIGNALING THIS IS NOT ONE AND
DONE. DONE.
THIS IS A SERIOUS OF RATE CUTS
IF THE LABOR MARKET CONTINUES
TO BE SOFT AND THERE IS A
BELIEF INFLATION IS ONE-TIME
AND EVENTUALLY FADES, THESE
WOULD BE MULTIPLE RATE CUTS.
THAT IS WHAT I WOULD EXPECT TO
HEAR FROM JAY POWELL.
HEAR FROM JAY POWELL. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
LOOKING AHEAD TO THE FED
MEETING NEXT WEEK.
DECISION, FORECAST, NEWS
CONFERENCE. CONFERENCE.
CAN HE GET THE REST OF THE
COMMITTEE TO GO WITH HIM?
AFTER THE DATA FRIDAY, WILL
THEY COMMIT TO MORE IN THE
FUTURE? FUTURE? LISA: LISA:
I'M GOING TO MAKE YOUR DAY
BECAUSE I WILL TALK ABOUT THE
HAWKISH RATE CUT A LOT OF
PEOPLE WERE EXPECTING AFTER
JACKSON HOLE. JACKSON HOLE.
DOES THIS MOVE TO A DOVISH RATE
CUT? CUT?
IS THERE A SIGNAL THEY WILL BE
CUTTING MORE SUBSTANTIALLY
GOING FORWARD AND CAN JAY
POWELL SIGNAL THAT GIVEN THE
LACK OF AGREEMENT ON THE
COMMITTEE? COMMITTEE? JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
PERSONAL ISSUES WILL BE
INTERESTING IN THIS NEWS
CONFERENCE. CONFERENCE. LISA:
LISA: YEAH, WHO WILL BE THERE?
YEAH, WHO WILL BE THERE?
WILL STEPHEN MIRAN BE THERE?
THIS IS GOING TO BE A DIFFICULT
MOMENT. MOMENT.
HE WILL HAVE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS ABOUT LISA COOK.
QUESTIONS ABOUT STEPHEN MIRAN
IF HE IS THERE. IF HE IS THERE.
HOW THE MARKET READS THIS,
WHETHER THE MARKET THINKS THIS
IS OVERBLOWN OR VALID WILL BE
THE LONG-TERM BOND RATES.
WHEN YOU SEAT YIELDS CREEP UP,
THAT IS WHEN IT COMES INTO
QUESTION. QUESTION.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
THE WHOLE CURVE JUST PULLING
BACK GOING INTO THE OPENING
BELL FOR EQUITIES.
EQUITY FUTURES ON THE S&P 500
POSITIVE BY .2%.
WITH YOUR BLOOMBERG BRIEF,
LET'S CROSS OVER FOR MORE.
>> ISRAELI POLICE AND MEDICS
SAY SIX PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
13 WOUNDED IN A SHOOTING THIS
MORNING. MORNING.
AUTHORITIES SAY THE GUNMEN WERE
FROM THE PALESTINIAN WEST BANK
AND ARRIVE BY CAR AND OPENED
FIRE TOWARD THE BUS STOP.
THEY WERE SHOT DEAD BY
THEY WERE SHOT DEAD BY ISRAELIS.
ISRAELIS. JOHN F. JOHN F.
KENNEDY MAY ADD NEW MEMBERS TO
THE COMMITTEE THAT RECOMMENDS
WHAT VACCINES AMERICANS SHOULD
GET. GET.
ACCORDING TO FORMER OFFICIALS,
MOST OF THE PEOPLE HE IS
CONSIDERING HAVE BEEN HIGHLY
CRITICAL OF COVID-19
VACCINATIONS. VACCINATIONS.
THE COMMITTEE IS SET TO VOTE ON
THE RECOMMENDATIONS LATER THIS
MONTH. MONTH.
MARIA SABALENKA SUCCESSFULLY
DEFENDED HER U.S.
DEFENDED HER U.S. OPEN CROWN.
OPEN CROWN.
SHE IS THE FIRST PLAYER TO WIN
BACK-TO-BACK U.S.
OPEN WOMEN'S SINGLES TITLE
SINCE SERENA WILLIAMS MORE THAN
A DECADE AGO. A DECADE AGO.
CARLOS ALCARAZ TOOK HOME HIS
SIXTH GRANDSON TITLE AND SECOND
AT THE U.S. AT THE U.S. OPEN.
OPEN.
I'M JUST EXCITED I GET TO WATCH
TENNIS EVERY DAY.
TENNIS EVERY DAY. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN:
TICKETS JUST GOT SO EXPENSIVE
GOING INTO THE WEEKEND.
$1000 FOR THE NOSEBLEEDS.
$1000 FOR THE NOSEBLEEDS. LISA:
LISA:
YOU PAY THAT KIND OF MONEY AND
THEN YOU HAVE TO WAIT IN THE
LINE BECAUSE OF THE SECURITY.
JONATHAN: JONATHAN:
HE KNEW THE PRESIDENT WAS
COMING. COMING.
COULD THEY HAVE NOT ORGANIZED
THINGS BETTER? THINGS BETTER?
LISA: LISA:
COULD THEY HAVE SIGNALED WHAT
THE REQUIREMENTS WERE GOING TO
BE SO PEOPLE DID NOT BRING IN
MORE THAN THREE OUNCES OF
LIQUID OR WHATEVER ELSE IT WAS?
I FEEL LIKE IT WAS RATHER
HAPHAZARD. HAPHAZARD. JONATHAN:
JONATHAN: I WOULD AGREE.
I WOULD AGREE.
CONGRATULATIONS TO CARLOS
ALCARAZ AND MARIA SABALENKA.
NEXT, WE WILL SET YOU UP FOR A
BIG WEEK AHEAD. BIG WEEK AHEAD.
PLUS, WE WILL CATCH UP WITH
STEPHEN ENGLANDER EXPECTING A
JUMBO RATE CUT FROM THE FEDERAL
RESERVE NEXT WEEK.
♪ ♪
>> I THINK SOME OF THE RISKS
HAVE TRANSFERRED MORE TO LABOR
AND DEMAND DESTRUCTION COMING
FROM A WEAKER LABOR MARKET.
IF YOU GET A BAD PRINTED ON
INFLATION THIS WEEK, THAT COULD
EASILY GO UP.
BUT THE FRONT END WILL GO UP AS
WELL IN TERMS OF YIELDS.
IF THE LABOR MARKET CONTINUES
TO WEAKEN, THE ENTIRE CURVE
COULD FALL. JONATHAN:
THAT WAS LOOKING AHEAD TO
INFLATION DATA LATER THIS WEEK
AS WE COUNT YOU DOWN TO THE
OPENING BELL.
S&P FUTURES POSITIVE BY .2%.
THE NASDAQ ONE HIGHER HIGHER BY
ABOUT .3.
SMALL CAPS DOING OK UP .3% ALSO.
HERE IS YOUR TRADING DIARY FOR
THIS WEEK.
TOMORROW, PAYROLL REVISIONS AND
APPLE'S IPHONE EVENT WEDNESDAY.
PPI THURSDAY.
CPI PLUS ANOTHER ROUND OF
JOBLESS CLAIMS AND RATE
DECISION GOING INTO THE WEEKEND
ON FRIDAY.
NEXT WEEK IS THE FEDERAL
RESERVE.
STEVEN ENGLANDER WRITING WE
THINK THE LATEST AUGUST LABOR
MARKET DATA HAS OPENED THE DOOR
TO A CATCH UP 50-BASIS POINT
RATE CUT AT THE SEPTEMBER FOMC
MEETING.
STEVEN ENGLANDER JOINS US FOR
MORE.
CAN THEY FIND CONSENSUS FOR 50?
>> I DO NOT THINK THEY CAN FIND
CONSENSUS FOR 50.
AND LET'S KEEP SLAMMING THE
MARKET WITH 50'S.
I THINK THEY CAN FIND A
CONSENSUS THAT SAYS THE LAST
FOUR MONTHS, PAYROLLS HAVE
AVERAGED 27,000.
HAD WE KNOWN FOUR MONTHS AGO
THAT WOULD BE THE AVERAGE, WE
WOULD PROBABLY HAVE CUT FINE
NOW SO WE ARE GOING -- CUT BY
NOW SO WE ARE GOING TO DO 50
AND HAVE MOVED CLOSER TO
NEUTRAL. LISA:
LAST YEAR, THEY CUT BY 50 AND
IT SEEMED LIKE THE DATA WAS A
HEAD FAKE. STEVEN: NOT SO CLEAR.
IT IS NOT AS IF THERE HAS BEEN
ANY REAL PICKUP IN INFLATION
PRINT THE LABOR MARKET HAS
DETERIORATED SINCE THEN.
I THINK POLITICALLY IT SHOWS
THEM TO BE NEUTRAL.
THEY MISSED IT LAST YEAR WHEN
THEY CUT.
THAT IS THE REASON THEY
SUBSEQUENTLY GAVE.
NOW, THE DATA ARE MORE CLEAR.
THEY ARE SAYING WE ARE CATCHING
UP. LISA: YOU THINK IT WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE FOR THEM TO GO 50.
MORE PEOPLE ARE COALESCING TO
THAT.
IF THEY DON'T, DO YOU THINK
THAT IS A POLICY ERROR? STEVEN:
YEAH.
I THINK THE DATA JUSTIFY IT.
I DO NOT THINK THE DATA JUSTIFY
THEM DOING 50 AND TO KEEP ON
DOING 50.
I THINK IT SAYS -- YOU LOOK AT
UNIT LABOR COSTS, THEY ARE
GOING VERY WEAK.
INFLATION IS NOT GOING ANYWHERE.
THE SIGNS TARIFF INFLATION IS
FLOATING BUT NOT BEYOND WHAT
YOU WOULD EXPECT.
AS WE WERE DISCUSSING THE OTHER
DAY, IF YOU TAKE OUT THE
ADJUSTMENT WHICH IS
QUESTIONABLE, GROWTH IS
NEGATIVE WHICH IS USUALLY A
SIGN YOU SHOULD DO SOMETHING
AND PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE
ALREADY. LISA:
WHAT DO YOU THINK THIS --
JONATHAN:
WHAT YOU THINK SO-CALLED
NEUTRAL IS? STEVEN:
WE THINK IT IS ABOUT 100,000.
LISA:
THAT IS THE BREAK -- JONATHAN:
THAT IS THE BREAKEVEN RATE FOR
INTEREST RATES? STEVEN:
INTEREST RATES, PROBABLY 3.5,
3.75. JONATHAN:
WE ARE NOT MANY MILES AWAY.
STEVEN:
WE GET THERE WITH HALF A CUT.
THERE IS A CASE FOR DOING IT.
I DO NOT THINK THEY WILL GET A
CONSENSUS TO ANNOUNCE THEY WILL
DO MORE 50'S.
I THINK THERE IS A CASE.
GDP IS NOT THAT WEAK.
EVEN IF YOU LOOK AT THE LABOR
MARKET NUMBERS, THEY ARE NOT
CATASTROPHIC.
THIS IS NOT 2008 OR APRIL 2020.
A LOT OF THE NUMBERS ARE
SOFTISH , LIKE THE MILDEST
RECESSION.
NONE OF THEM ARE SIGNALING YOU
ARE FALLING OFF A CLIFF.
I THINK THE IDEA YOU CATCH UP
TO WHERE YOU THINK YOU SHOULD
BE AND WAIT AND SEE. JONATHAN:
THIS WILL BE THE BIG DEBATE AT
THE FEDERAL RESERVE.
ON THE LABOR MARKET, WHICH
CHAIRMAN POWELL WINS?
THE ONE FROM THE NEWS
CONFERENCE OR THE CHAIRMAN
POWELL FROM JACKSON HOLE WHO
ANCHORED HIS VIEW AROUND THE
LABOR MARKET ON PAYROLL GROWTH?
WHICH WILL WIN OUT? STEVEN:
I RESPECT HIM A LOT.
JONATHAN:
DO YOU RESPECT THE JULY FED
POWELL MORE? STEVEN:
I THINK HE IS GOING TO SAY THE
DATA DID NOT PLAY OUT THE WAY
WE EXPECTED SO WE HAVE TO
ADJUST. I THINK HE WILL BE THE
JACKSON HOLE POWELL. LISA:
THERE IS THIS QUESTION GOING
FORWARD.
IT IS INTERESTING YOU SEE
NEUTRAL AS 3.5 OR 3.75.
THAT IS NOT WHERE THE MARKET IS.
THE MARKET IS SEEING A 25 CUT
NEXT WEEK AND THEN GETTING
BELOW 3% BY THE END OF NEXT
YEAR WHICH IS FASCINATING.
IT IS A DIFFERENT CALL FROM
YOURS.
ARE WE AT A TIPPING POINT WHERE
THE FED CAN ACHIEVE A SOFT
LANDING IF THEY CUT ENOUGH NOW
BUT WILL PRECIPITATE SOME
HARDER LANDING IF THEY DON'T?
STEVEN:
IF THEY JUST BASICALLY BUILD A
WALL AND SAY WE WILL NOT CUT
AND DON'T EVEN TALK TO US ABOUT
IT, THAT WOULD BE THE WRONG
POLICY.
IF THEY SAY WE ARE DOING 25, WE
WILL PROBABLY DO 25 IN OCTOBER
OR NOVEMBER, THE WORLD IS NOT
GOING TO END.
DOING 50 AND BEING DATA
DEPENDENT WILL BE CLEANER. LISA:
IF THE FED WERE TO CUT BY 50
BASIS POINTS, WHAT WOULD THAT
DO TO THE DOLLAR? STEVEN:
I THINK THE MARKET WOULD
ANTICIPATE THEY ARE GOING TO DO
MORE EVEN IF THEY SAY IT IS
DATA DEPENDENT.
I THINK OVER TIME, AND THE
MARKET WOULD CATCH ON.
IT WOULD SEE WHAT THE FED DID.
IF THEY KEPT CUTTING, IT WOULD
GET WEAKER.
WE DO NOT THINK THEY WILL KEEP
CUTTING.
THERE ARE SOME INDICATIONS
PRODUCTIVITY GROWTH IS PICKING
UP. THE OUTPUT SIDE IS NOT THAT
BAD.
THIS IS LIKE HOLDING ONTO 1997,
1998.
YOU HAVE TO BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU
DO. JONATHAN:
ARE YOU IN THE RE-ACCELERATION
CAMP FOR 2026? STEVEN:
THERE COULD BE A BIT OF A
PICKUP.
MICA SAID, THE GDP NUMBERS ARE
LOOKING OK.
ULTIMATELY, HIRING MIGHT RESUME
WHEN THERE IS MORE CLARITY
ABOUT WHAT IS GOING ON AND
THINGS SETTLE DOWN.
WE ARE NOT IN THE RECESSION
CAMP.
WE HAVE GONE FROM 150,000 JOBS
TO 30,000 AND WILL GO TO -300.
JONATHAN: A PLEASURE.
GOOD TO SEE YOU.
STEVEN ENGLANDER LOOKING FOR 50
BASIS POINTS FROM THE FEDERAL
RESERVE NEXT WEEK AFTER THE BIG
STEP DOWN IN PAYROLL GROWTH.
LISA:
MORE FOR COALESCING AROUND THE
IDEA -- MORE PEOPLE ARE
COALESCING AROUND THE IDEA.
I THINK NOW IS A BLACK BOX
MOMENT WHERE PEOPLE ARE
STRUGGLING TO UNDERSTAND THE
PARADIGM.
YOU COULD SAY A 50 BASIS POINT
RATE CUT WOULD SIGNAL A REAL
SLOW DOWN, THAT IS DRAMATIC.
BUT WHEN YOU LISTEN TO WHAT
STEVEN ENGLANDER HAS TO SAY, IT
IS FOR A POSITIVE, BENIGN
BACKDROP THAT DOES NOT SPEAK TO
SOME FALLING OFF THE CLIFF
MOMENT.
IT IS SORT OF A MORASS OF LACK
OF CLARITY. JONATHAN:
THE STRONGEST OR YOU COULD TELL
AT THE MOMENT IS THE
UNMPLOYMENT RATE HAS NOT
CLIMBED THAT MUCH OVER THE
SUMMER EVEN THOUGH WE HAVE SEEN
A MASSIVE STEP DOWN IN PAYROLLS.
JOBLESS CLAIMS HAVE JUST ABOUT
HELD UP.
THAT IS THE BEST STORE YOU CAN
TELL RIGHT NOW.
THE LABOR MARKET, WHICH IS WHY
PEOPLE BELIEVE THE FED WILL CUT
NEXT WEEK. LISA:
I LOOK AT THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE
FOR KIDS THAT GRADUATED FROM
COLLEGE.
IT IS 10 POINT 6%, THE HIGHEST
IT HAS EVER BEEN OUTSIDE OF
RECESSION -- IT IS 10.6%, THE
HIGHEST IT HAS EVER BEEN
OUTSIDE OF A RECESSION.
IF THIS WAS A HEALTHY LABOR
MARKET, THAT WOULD NOT BE
HAPPENING. JONATHAN:
IT IS HARD TO GET A JOB RIGHT
NOW.
THAT IS WHAT WE ARE TOLD AND
WHAT YOU SEE IN THE ECONOMIC
DATA. THE WEEK AHEAD INCLUDES
INFLATION DATA, A BIG CPI PRINT
GOING INTO THE FEDERAL RESERVE
MEETING NEXT WEEK.
25 OR 50 SEEMS TO BE THE DEBATE
AT THE MOMENT.
IT IS NOT A MATTER OF IF, IT IS
HOW BIG. THEY JOIN US TOMORROW.
FROM NEW YORK, THIS WAS
"BLOOMBERG SURVEILLANCE." ♪